Sections

SEARCH
Skip to content <#site-content>Skip to site index <#site-index>
<https://www.nytimes.com/>
Subscribe
<https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp8HYKU.html?campaignId=6W74R&URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F01%2F30%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ffact-check-sotu.html>Log
In
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F01%2F30%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ffact-check-sotu.html>

Friday, March 23, 2018
Subscribe
<https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp8HYKU.html?campaignId=6W74R&URI=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F01%2F30%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ffact-check-sotu.html>Log
In
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?URI=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F01%2F30%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ffact-check-sotu.html>

Advertisement

Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>

  * //
    <https://www.facebook.com/dialog/feed?app_id=9869919170&link=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F01%2F30%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ffact-check-sotu.html&smid=fb-share&name=2018%20State%20of%20the%20Union%20Fact%20Check&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2F>
  * //
    <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F01%2F30%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ffact-check-sotu.html&text=2018%20State%20of%20the%20Union%20Fact%20Check>
  * //
    <mailto:?subject=NYTimes.com%3A%202018%20State%20of%20the%20Union%20Fact%20Check&body=From%20The%20New%20York%20Times%3A%0A%0A2018%20State%20of%20the%20Union%20Fact%20Check%0A%0A%20Times%20Reporters%20weigh%20in%20on%20the%20facts%2C%20falsehoods%20and%20statements%20that%20need%20context%20from%20Donald%20Trump's%20first%20State%20of%20the%20Union%0A%0Ahttps%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F01%2F30%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ffact-check-sotu.html>
  * //
*

Supported by

The trump presidency


  2018 State of the Union Fact Check2018 State of the Union Fact Check

Image
President Trump at The State of the Union on Tuesday night.
CreditGabriella Demczuk for The New York Times

By The New York Times

Jan. 30, 2018

Reporters from The New York Times checked the facts, falsehoods and
statements in need of context from President Trump’s first State of the
Union address. Watch a replay along with real time analysis here
<https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/01/30/us/politics/sotu-address-live.html>,
and read an annotated transcript of the speech
<https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/01/30/us/politics/state-of-the-union-2018-transcript.html>.


economy


    “Since the election, we have created 2.4 million new jobs, including
    200,000 new jobs in manufacturing alone.”


      *The math is correct, but context matters.*

The economy has added about 169,000 jobs a month
<https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/CES0000000001?output_view=net_1mth>
since the 2016 election, but that is somewhat less than the 185,000 jobs
per month that the economy added over the previous seven years.

/— Binyamin Appelbaum/

economy


    “African-American unemployment stands at the lowest rate ever recorded.”


      True, but needs context.

It’s true
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/28/us/politics/trump-jay-z-unemployment-fact-check.html?rref=collection%2Fspotlightcollection%2Ffact-checks&action=click&contentCollection=politics&region=stream&module=stream_unit&version=latest&contentPlacement=1&pgtype=collection>
that the black unemployment rate in December, 6.8 percent, was the
lowest recorded, but that is also the culmination of a longer-term
trend. Moreover, it’s  an open question how much credit a president, especially in his first
year, can take for the economy.

/— Linda Qiu/

economy


    “After years of wage stagnation, we are finally seeing rising wages.”


      *False*.

Wages are, in fact, rising — but at a slower rate
<https://www.frbatlanta.org/chcs/wage-growth-tracker.aspx?panel=1> than
they were at the end of President Obama’s second term.

/— Jim Tankersley /

health care


    “We eliminated an especially cruel tax that fell mostly on Americans
    making less than $50,000 a year — forcing them to pay tremendous
    penalties simply because they couldn’t afford government-ordered
    health plans. We repealed the core of disastrous Obamacare — the
    individual mandate is now gone.’’


      *True, but needs context. *

In the newly passed tax law, Congress eliminated penalties for people
who go without health insurance, starting in 2019. An estimated
<https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/11/28/us/politics/obamacare-individual-mandate-penalty-maps.html>
4.5 percent of taxpayers paid the penalty in 2015, and nearly 60 percent
<https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/115th-congress-2017-2018/presentation/53310-presentation.pdf>
of those who did earned less than $50,000 in 2015 — though the Kaiser
Family Foundation found
<https://www.kff.org/health-reform/issue-brief/how-many-of-the-uninsured-can-purchase-a-marketplace-plan-for-less-than-their-shared-responsibility-penalty/>
that a sizable amount of low-income Americans paying the penalty could
find coverage for less.

People could, in many cases, obtain exemptions from the penalties that
were indeed a major element of the Affordable Care Act. Other elements
of the health care law remain intact.
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/20/us/politics/factcheck-trump-tax-repeal-health-care.html>

/— Robert Pear /

economy


    “Apple has just announced its plans to invest a total of $350
    billion in America, and hire another 20,000 workers.”


      *This needs context.  *

The technology giant Apple did, indeed, say after the tax cut passed
that it would “invest”  $350 billion domestically over the next five years. But at least $275
billion of that was simply continuing the company’s past spending
trends. The actual amount of new investment
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/26/business/davos-world-economic-forum-trump.html>
appears to be roughly $37 billion.

/— Jim Tankersley/

Video
Advertisement
LIVE
00:00
0:42

<https://www.nytimes.com/video>

Trump on American Energy Policy
<https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000005709197/trump-american-energy-policy.html?action=click&gtype=vhs&version=vhs-heading&module=vhs&region=title-area>


By The New York Times
//
State of the Union 2018 By The New York Times Play Video 0:42

Trump on American Energy Policy

President Trump claimed to have eliminated more regulations within the
past year than any previous administration. He also promised an embrace
of "beautiful, clean coal."Published OnJan. 30, 2018CreditImage by Doug
Mills/The New York Times

economy


    “Many car companies are now building and expanding plants in the
    United States — something we have not seen for decades.”


      *This is an exaggeration. *

Yes, some car companies have announced new or expanded plants under
Trump, but that’s hardly new or unseen “for decades.” Toyota, for
example, opened a plant in Mississippi
<http://toyotanews.pressroom.toyota.com/releases/toyota+begins+corolla+production+mississippi.htm>
in 2011.

There has been no surge in automotive employment
<https://fred.stlouisfed.org/graph/?g=hYo2> under his tenure — it’s
actually down from a year ago.

/— Jim Tankersley/

health care


    “Last year, the F.D.A. approved more new and generic drugs and
    medical devices than ever before in our history.’’


      *True. *

The Food and Drug Administration approved 1,027 generic drugs
<https://blogs.fda.gov/fdavoice/index.php/tag/promoting-drug-competition/>
in the 2017 fiscal year, the highest annual total in the agency’s
history. Scott Gottlieb, the F.D.A. commissioner, also said that the
agency approved 95 novel medical devices last year, another record.

/— Robert Pear /

energy


    “We have ended the war on American energy — and we have ended the
    war on beautiful, clean coal. We are now very proudly an exporter of
    energy to the world.”


      *This is misleading.*

Over all, the United States is a net energy importer, although it is
projected to be a net energy exporter sometime in the 2020s
<https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=29433>.

A government analysis
<https://www.eia.gov/outlooks/steo/pdf/steo_full.pdf> found that the
United States became a net exporter of natural gas in 2017 for the first
time since 1957, and it remains a net exporter of coal. But it is still
a net importer of oil.

While it is accurate that Mr. Trump has ordered the Environmental
Protection Agency to roll back regulations on the burning of coal, it
has done almost nothing to revive the industry,
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/24/business/energy-environment/coal-miners.html>
which, economists note, was already in decline because of competition
from cheaper sources like natural gas.

/— Coral Davenport/

economy


    “Chrysler is moving a major plant from Mexico to Michigan.”


      *Sort of. *

Chrysler announced that it would move production of heavy-duty pickup
trucks from Saltillo, Mexico, to a plant in Michigan
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/11/business/fiat-chrysler-jobs.html>.
But a truck plant in Saltillo will remain open and be “repurposed to
produce future commercial vehicles for global distribution,” according
to the automaker. Other plants
<http://media.fcanorthamerica.com/newsrelease.do?id=9117&mid=1> in
Mexico will also continue operations.

/— Linda Qiu/

health care


    “One of my greatest priorities is to reduce the price of
    prescription drugs. In many other countries, these drugs cost far
    less than what we pay in the United States, and it’s very, very
    unfair.’’


      True.

Prices for brand-name prescription drugs aretypically higher in the
United States than in other developed countries
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/02/upshot/us-health-care-expensive-country-comparison.html>,
which regulate prices or set them through negotiations with drug
manufacturers. Drug makers have strenuously opposed regulation of prices
in this country. Cancer drugs and other new medicines sometimes enter
the U.S. market with prices exceeding $50,000 a year. And a handful of
companies have driven up the prices of some decades-old drugs whose
patents expired years ago.

/— Robert Pear /

infrastructure


    “We built the Empire State Building in just one year — isn’t it a
    disgrace that it can now take 10 years just to get a permit approved
    for a simple road?”


      *Partially true, and needs context.*

The Empire State Building was built in just over a year
<http://www.esbnyc.com/explore/historical-timeline>. But construction
time shouldn’t be compared with the time needed to get a permit (the
design for the Empire State Building changed
<http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/buildingbig/wonder/structure/empire_state.html>
at least 15 times during planning and construction). The requirements
for construction and permits are also different between roads and
buildings, two different pieces of infrastructure.

Mr. Trump is also overstating the process for building roads. While some
bigger projects can take around 10 years to receive permits, small
projects, like repaving a road, can take little to no time at all.
Average wait times have ranged from three to six years
<https://www.environment.fhwa.dot.gov/nepa/timeliness_of_nepa.aspx> over
the past two decades, according to the Federal Highway Administration.

/— Emily Cochrane /

Video
Advertisement
LIVE
00:00
0:22

<https://www.nytimes.com/video>

Trump on Family-Based Immigration
<https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000005709198/trump-american-economy.html?action=click&gtype=vhs&version=vhs-heading&module=vhs&region=title-area>


By The New York Times
//
State of the Union 2018 By The New York Times Play Video 0:22

Trump on Family-Based Immigration

President Trump laid out his plan for changes for family-based
immigration to a smattering of boos and hisses.Published OnJan. 30,
2018CreditImage by Gabriella Demczuk for The New York Times

immigration


    “The second pillar fully secures the border. That means building a
    wall on the Southern border, and it means hiring more heroes like
    C.J. to keep our communities safe.”


      *The wall’s impact is unclear. *

Homeland Security officials say a border wall would slow the influx of
illegal immigrants and drug smugglers and help Border Patrol agents stop
them. But it, alone, would not fully stop immigration or the flow of
drugs
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/26/us/politics/border-wall-prototypes-unveiled.html>;
nor would it make the border fully secure.  A majority of border crossings occurred
<https://www.gao.gov/assets/690/682838.pdf> in places where fencing or
walls already exist. Just 30 percent of known illegal entries took place
in areas without border fencing.

/— Ron Nixon /

immigration


    “The third pillar ends the visa lottery — a program that randomly
    hands out green cards without any regard for skill, merit or the
    safety of our people.”


      *False.*

The visa lottery program provides 50,000 immigrant visas to people from
countries with low immigration rates to the United States.

An 18-page guide from the State Department says applicants must have a
high school education or two years of work experience in the past five
years that requires “two years of training or experience.”

The applicant must undergo a medical exam and cannot have a criminal
record. Visa winners are then subjected to a lengthy background check
that can last for months.

/— Ron Nixon/

immigration


    “Under the current broken system, a single immigrant can bring in
    virtually unlimited numbers of distant relatives.”


      This claim is misleading.

Immigrants who obtain green cards or citizenship can petition tobring in
their relatives
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/26/us/politics/the-facts-behind-the-weaponized-phrase-chain-migration.html>.
But that doesn’t automatically allow entry  into the United States. Anyone applying for residency must undergo
national security and criminal background checks.

The federal government also places annual caps on the number of
immigrants’ married children and adult siblings who can sponsor for a
visa. The system is badly backlogged; as of Nov. 1, more than 3.9
million people
<https://travel.state.gov/content/dam/visas/Statistics/Immigrant-Statistics/WaitingList/WaitingListItem_2017.pdf>
were waiting in line. Some siblings of immigrants who in 2004 petitioned
for a visa to come to the United States were just this month starting to
have their claims processed.

/— Ron Nixon /

national security


    “The coalition to defeat ISIS has liberated almost 100 percent of
    the territory once held by these killers in Iraq and Syria.”


      *True, but needs context*.

Mr. Trump is correct that the Islamic State has been forced from most of
its previously held territory — 98 percent — in Iraq and Syria. But he
is reaping the advantage of a strategy
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/17/us/politics/trump-islamic-state-raqqa-fact-check.html>
begun in the Obama administration.

American-led forces had already wrested more than 13,000 square miles of
territory from the group by the time Mr. Trump was elected in November
2016. Things accelerated after he gave American commanders more
authority to order airstrikes and make battlefield decisions. But the
defeat of the caliphate does not mean the end of the Islamic State, or
ISIS, as a movement or ideology.

— /Helene Cooper and Eric Schmitt/

Image
CreditTom Brenner/The New York Times

economy


    “The stock market has smashed one record after another.”


      *True*.

The United States stock market has indeed surged since Mr. Trump
<http://www.macrotrends.net/2482/sp500-performance-by-president> took
office, with the S. & P. 500 stock index rising 24.7 percent and
notching a series of record highs. By comparison, the same index was up
26.3 percent at the same point during President Barack Obama’s
administration in 2009 and early 2010.

Back then, level of the stock market was significantly lower, reflecting
the impact of the financial crisis in the United States and the deep
recession that followed. Under Mr. Obama, stocks continued to recover
and also notched a series of record highs, starting in 2013.

/— Matt Phillips /

trade


    “America has also finally turned the page on decades of unfair trade
    deals that sacrificed our prosperity and shipped away our companies,
    our jobs, and our nation’s wealth.”


      *This needs context.*

Economists say the loss of manufacturing jobs has more to do with
automation
<https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/21/upshot/the-long-term-jobs-killer-is-not-china-its-automation.html>
and globalization than specific trade deals.

Research <https://fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R42965.pdf> suggests that the
North American Free Trade Agreement has had a negligible effect on
American jobs. And China’s entry into the World Trade Organization in
2001 seems to have had a more pronounced impact on factory jobs. While
Mr. Trump has abandoned
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/23/us/politics/tpp-trump-trade-nafta.html>
the trans-Pacific Partnership, negotiations to revamp Nafta are ongoing
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/29/us/politics/nafta-talks-conclude-in-montreal-with-signs-of-progress-and-risk.html>.


/— Natalie Kitroeff/

economy


    “Since we passed tax cuts, roughly three million workers have
    already gotten tax cut bonuses — many of them thousands of dollars
    per worker.”


      *True.*

The statistic comes from a list of tax-related corporate announcements
<https://www.atr.org/list> compiled by Americans for Tax Reform, an
enthusiastic booster of Mr. Trump’s tax cuts. His wording is carefully
phrased. Mr. Trump notes “many” of the announced bonuses amount to
thousands of dollars, a number that is vague enough to be defensible.
(He also could have said “many of them hundreds of dollars per worker”
and been correct, as well.)

/— Jim Tankersley/

READ MORE: The Times is tracking companies that have made announcements
about bonuses and other employment benefits because of the tax law
<https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/business/dealbook/tax-savings-benefits.html>.


taxes


    “We enacted the biggest tax cuts and reform in American history.”


      *False. *

Mr. Trump won’t stop making this claim, even though zero evidence
supports it
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/29/us/politics/fact-check-trump-tax-cuts.html>.
Tax cuts signed by President Ronald Reagan were larger as a share of the
economy and in terms of their effects on federal revenues. The recently
passed tax bill appears to rank 12th in American history, as a share of
the economy.

/— Jim Tankersley/


    The Democratic Rebuttal

Image
Without uttering the president’s name, Representative Joseph P. Kennedy
III chastised the Trump administration Tuesday night.CreditBrian
Snyder/Reuters

Joseph P. Kennedy III delivered the Democratic response to the State of
the Union. Below is a fact check of his remarks.

economy


    “Top C.E.O.s making 300 times the average worker is not right.”


      *True, but misleading. *

Mr. Kennedy is most likely referring to a 2014 study
<http://www.epi.org/publication/ceo-pay-continues-to-rise/> from the
left-leaning Economic Policy Institute. It said that pay for chief
executives at the top 350 American firms were about 300 times more than
their employees.

But that sample represents a small fraction of all American businesses,
and not a very representative one. According to Bureau of Labor
Statistics <https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes111011.htm> data, chief
executives made an average salary of $194,000 in 2016, about four times
what the average worker made.
<https://www.bls.gov/oes/2016/may/oes_nat.htm#00-0000>

/— Linda Qiu/

A version of this article appears in print on January 30, 2018, on Page
A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Assessing Trump’s Claims
on Immigration, ISIS, the Economy and Taxes. Order Reprints
<http://www.nytreprints.com/> | Today’s Paper
<http://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html> | Subscribe
<https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp8HYKU.html?campaignId=48JQY>

  * //
    <https://www.facebook.com/dialog/feed?app_id=9869919170&link=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F01%2F30%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ffact-check-sotu.html&smid=fb-share&name=2018%20State%20of%20the%20Union%20Fact%20Check&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2F>
  * //
    <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F01%2F30%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ffact-check-sotu.html&text=2018%20State%20of%20the%20Union%20Fact%20Check>
  * //
    <mailto:?subject=NYTimes.com%3A%202018%20State%20of%20the%20Union%20Fact%20Check&body=From%20The%20New%20York%20Times%3A%0A%0A2018%20State%20of%20the%20Union%20Fact%20Check%0A%0A%20Times%20Reporters%20weigh%20in%20on%20the%20facts%2C%20falsehoods%20and%20statements%20that%20need%20context%20from%20Donald%20Trump's%20first%20State%20of%20the%20Union%0A%0Ahttps%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F01%2F30%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ffact-check-sotu.html>
  * //

Advertisement

Trending on NYTimes <https://www.nytimes.com/>

 1.


            Unbecoming a Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html>
 2.


            This Tiny Mummy Isn’t an Alien, but Its Story Is Almost as
            Strange

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/science/ata-mummy-alien-chile.html>
 3.


            He Gambles. He Tips Staff. He Eats Alone. All the While,
            He’s Stocking His Vegas Suite With Guns.

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/las-vegas-shooting-stephen-paddock.html>


    Site Index

<https://www.nytimes.com/>
Go to Home Page » <https://www.nytimes.com/>

news

  * home page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * world <https://www.nytimes.com/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/national>
  * politics <https://www.nytimes.com/politics>
  * politics <https://mobile.nytimes.com/politics>
  * New York <https://www.nytimes.com/nyregion>
  * business <https://www.nytimes.com/business>
  * tech <https://www.nytimes.com/technology>
  * science <https://www.nytimes.com/science>
  * sports <https://www.nytimes.com/sports>
  * obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/obituaries>
  * today's paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * corrections <https://mobile.nytimes.com/corrections/>
  * corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/corrections>

opinion

  * today's opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/opinion>
  * today's opinion <https://mobile.nytimes.com/opinion>
  * op-ed columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/topic/subject/columnists>
  * editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html#editorials>
  * editorials <https://mobile.nytimes.com/opinion/editorials>
  * contributing writers
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html#contributing>
  * op-ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html#op-ed>
  * letters <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html#letters>
  * letters <https://mobile.nytimes.com/opinion/letters>
  * sunday review
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html#sundayreview>
  * sunday review <https://mobile.nytimes.com/opinion/sundayreview>
  * taking note <https://www.nytimes.com/column/taking-note>
  * video: opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>

arts

  * today's arts <https://www.nytimes.com/arts>
  * art & design <https://www.nytimes.com/design>
  * books <https://www.nytimes.com/books>
  * dance <https://www.nytimes.com/dance>
  * movies <https://www.nytimes.com/movies>
  * music <https://www.nytimes.com/music>
  * television <https://www.nytimes.com/television>
  * theater <https://www.nytimes.com/theater>
  * video: arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>

living

  * automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/automobiles>
  * automobiles <https://mobile.nytimes.com/automobiles>
  * crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * food <https://www.nytimes.com/dining>
  * food <https://mobile.nytimes.com/dining>
  * education <https://www.nytimes.com/education>
  * fashion & style <https://www.nytimes.com/style>
  * health <https://www.nytimes.com/health>
  * jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/magazine>
  * real estate <https://www.nytimes.com/realestate>
  * t magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * travel <https://www.nytimes.com/travel>
  * weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>

listings & more

  * tools & services <http://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services>
  * N.Y.C. events guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events>
  * multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/multimedia/index.html>
  * photography <https://mobile.nytimes.com/blogs/lens>
  * photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT store <https://www.nytimes.com/store>
  * times journeys <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys>
  * manage my account
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>


      news

  * home page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * world <https://www.nytimes.com/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/national>
  * politics <https://www.nytimes.com/politics>
  * politics <https://mobile.nytimes.com/politics>
  * New York <https://www.nytimes.com/nyregion>
  * business <https://www.nytimes.com/business>
  * tech <https://www.nytimes.com/technology>
  * science <https://www.nytimes.com/science>
  * sports <https://www.nytimes.com/sports>
  * obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/obituaries>
  * today's paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * corrections <https://mobile.nytimes.com/corrections/>
  * corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/corrections>


      opinion

  * today's opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/opinion>
  * today's opinion <https://mobile.nytimes.com/opinion>
  * op-ed columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/topic/subject/columnists>
  * editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html#editorials>
  * editorials <https://mobile.nytimes.com/opinion/editorials>
  * contributing writers
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html#contributing>
  * op-ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html#op-ed>
  * letters <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html#letters>
  * letters <https://mobile.nytimes.com/opinion/letters>
  * sunday review
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html#sundayreview>
  * sunday review <https://mobile.nytimes.com/opinion/sundayreview>
  * taking note <https://www.nytimes.com/column/taking-note>
  * video: opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>


      arts

  * today's arts <https://www.nytimes.com/arts>
  * art & design <https://www.nytimes.com/design>
  * books <https://www.nytimes.com/books>
  * dance <https://www.nytimes.com/dance>
  * movies <https://www.nytimes.com/movies>
  * music <https://www.nytimes.com/music>
  * television <https://www.nytimes.com/television>
  * theater <https://www.nytimes.com/theater>
  * video: arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>


      living

  * automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/automobiles>
  * automobiles <https://mobile.nytimes.com/automobiles>
  * crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * food <https://www.nytimes.com/dining>
  * food <https://mobile.nytimes.com/dining>
  * education <https://www.nytimes.com/education>
  * fashion & style <https://www.nytimes.com/style>
  * health <https://www.nytimes.com/health>
  * jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/magazine>
  * real estate <https://www.nytimes.com/realestate>
  * t magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * travel <https://www.nytimes.com/travel>
  * weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>


      more

  * tools & services <http://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services>
  * N.Y.C. events guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events>
  * multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/multimedia/index.html>
  * photography <https://mobile.nytimes.com/blogs/lens>
  * photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT store <https://www.nytimes.com/store>
  * times journeys <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys>
  * manage my account
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>


      Subscribe

  * home delivery <https://www.nytimes.com/hdleftnav>
  * digital subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/digitalleftnav>
  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>

  * email newsletters <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newsletters>
  * alerts <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/mem/tnt.html>
  * corporate subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/corporateleftnav>
  * education rate <https://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav>

  * mobile applications <https://www.nytimes.com/services/mobile/index.html>
  * replica edition
    <http://eedition.nytimes.com/cgi-bin/signup.cgi?cc=37FYY>


    Site Information Navigation

  * © 2018 The New York Times Company
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html>

  * Contact Us <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html>
  * Work with us <http://www.nytco.com/careers>
  * Advertise <http://nytmediakit.com/>
  * Your Ad Choices
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp>
  * Privacy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Terms of Service
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html>
  * Terms of Sale
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html>
  * Site Map <http://spiderbites.nytimes.com/>
  * Help <https://mobile.nytimes.com/help>
  * Help <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter/sitehelp.html>
  * Subscriptions
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW>

Subscribe now.Just $15.99 $9.99 a month.

You have *4 free articles* remaining.

Subscribe

Collapse

SEE MY OPTIONS

One subscription.Endless discovery.

For just $15.99 $9.99 a month.

Subscribe
 <https://www.nytimes.com/subscription/multiproduct/lp8HYKU.html?campaignId=6YFYW&return_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F01%2F30%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ffact-check-sotu.html>
