//NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html>
//Sections

// Home

//Search

Skip to content <#story-header> Skip to navigation
<#site-index-navigation> View mobile version
<http://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/02/22/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india.html>



    The New York Times The New York Times <https://www.nytimes.com/>


            Asia Pacific
            <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/asia/index.html>|As
            Donald Trump Jr. Drums Up Business in India, Some Ask What’s
            Being Sold

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

//Search
Subscribe Now Log In //0 //Settings
//Close search


    Site Search Navigation

Search NYTimes.com
//Clear this text input

Go

https://nyti.ms/2F1A6s6

 1.


        Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/asia/index.html>

     1.
        //


            Responding to Trump, China Plans New Tariffs on U.S. Goods

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/china-trump-retaliatory-tariffs.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     2.
        //


            Beg, Borrow or Steal: How Trump Says China Takes Technology

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/business/china-trump-trade-intellectual-property.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     3.
        //


            In South Korea, Another Former President Lands in Jail

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/south-korea-lee-myung-bak-arrest-corruption.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     4.
        //


              Asia and Australia Edition


            Tariffs, Facebook, Joe Biden: Your Friday Briefing

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/briefing/tariffs-facebook-joe-biden.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     5.
     6.
        //


            Trump’s Trade Threats Put China’s Leader on the Spot

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/donald-trump-tariffs-china.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     7.
        //


            Julie Yip-Williams, Writer of Candid Blog on Cancer, Dies at 42

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/obituaries/julie-yip-williams-dies-writer-of-candid-blog-on-cancer.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     8.
        //


            Wreck of the Juneau Is Found, 76 Years After 5 Brothers Perished

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/uss-juneau-sullivan-brothers.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     9.
        //


            Trump Says Getting Tough on Chinese Trade Will Empower U.S.
            He Risks the Opposite.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/business/trade-trump-china.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

    10.
        //


            Helicopter Crash on Great Barrier Reef Kills 2 American Tourists

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/australia/helicopter-crash-great-barrier-reef.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

 2.
    Loading...

See next articles

See previous articles


    Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/asia/index.html>


    Site Navigation

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>

  * More


    Site Mobile Navigation

Advertisement

Supported by


      Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/asia/index.html>


  As Donald Trump Jr. Drums Up Business in India, Some Ask What’s Being Sold

By MARIA ABI-HABIB <https://www.nytimes.com/by/maria-abi-habib>, KAI
SCHULTZ and SUHASINI RAJ <https://www.nytimes.com/by/suhasini-raj>FEB.
22, 2018

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1> Share This Page
Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

Photo
//
Donald Trump Jr. in front of Trump Towers after the project’s
inauguration in Pune, India, on Wednesday. Credit Associated Press

NEW DELHI — Donald Trump Jr., who has spent the week in India pitching
new luxury high-rises that bear his family’s name, took the stage before
a crowd of about 200 on Thursday. “Building a Better Mumbai,” the banner
behind him proclaimed.

“We’re actually delivering true luxury,” Mr. Trump told the guests, who
were greeted by a red carpet, lit candles and a jazz band. “We’re
actually delivering buildings in the Indian marketplace that you can
take out of that marketplace, put in any cosmopolitan of the world and
say, ‘This is on par with some of the best.’”

The Trump Organization is reaping the windfall from India’s admiration
for President Trump. He may have low approval ratings at home, but he
appears well liked in a country with one of the fastest-growing
populations of millionaires in the world.

The Trump brand “spells glamour more than luxury,” said Kalyani Chawla,
a brand consultant and former executive at Christian Dior in India who
attended the event. “I think it’s all about Donald Trump, honestly,” she
said, “any idea of Donald Trump in general, regardless of the fact that
even he’s surprised he’s the president of the United States.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

But even before the president’s son arrived in India to press the flesh
and do the deals, his trip was creating controversy
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/17/world/trump-tower-india.html> over
its potential for blurring the lines between the Trump White House and
the Trump Organization.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-2>


    Related Coverage

  *


        President or Luxury Towers: Either Way, Trump Is the Rage in
        India FEB. 17, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/17/world/trump-tower-india.html>

  *


        Trump Meets India’s Leader, a Fellow Nationalist Battling China
        for His Favor JUNE 26, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/26/us/politics/donald-trump-narendra-modi-india.html>


  *


          NEWS ANALYSIS


        Trump White House Tests a Nation’s Capacity for Outrage JULY 24,
        2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/24/us/politics/attorney-general-bush-trump.html>


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-3>

As Mr. Trump hopped from city to city, Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat
of New Jersey, sought assurances from the United States Embassy in Delhi
that it was not helping Mr. Trump. And ethics experts seemed unable to
overstate the incongruity of a sitting president’s son drumming up
business overseas.

“Nothing like this — no, never,” said Marilyn L. Glynn
<https://oge.gov/Web/OGE.nsf/Resources/Testimony+of+Marilyn+L.+Glynn,+The+Reauthorization+of+the+Office+of+Government+Ethics>,
who served as general counsel at the Office of Government Ethics during
parts of the Clinton and Bush administrations. “Unprecedented, unheard-of.”

The controversy only grew as word spread that Mr. Trump planned to give
a speech in New Delhi on Friday, taking the podium before Prime Minister
Narendra Modi speaks. The topic: “Reshaping Indo-Pacific Ties: The New
Era of Cooperation.”

“The title sure sounds like something you would hear from a diplomat,”
said Joshua White <https://www.sais-jhu.edu/users/jwhite>, who worked in
the Obama White House as director for South Asian Affairs at the
National Security Council. “It is not illegal, but it would muddy the
waters and I think make life rather difficult for those in the United
States government who are being measured about how they articulate what
the administration’s Indo-Pacific strategy is and will become.”

On Wednesday, Mr. Menendez said in a letter to the embassy in New Delhi,
“Given the potential to confuse Mr. Trump’s private business visit with
having an official governmental purpose, I write to ensure that the U.S.
Embassy presence in India will have no role in supporting Mr. Trump or
the Trump Organization during his time in India, other than that
necessary to provide any security support for the U.S. Secret Service.”

The embassy said it had no role in the visit other than helping with his
security.

In his comments on the stage in Mumbai on Thursday, Mr. Trump defended
his actions, and said his father’s job had actually been bad for business.

“We don’t want any kind of conflict of interest,” he said. “We don’t
want anyone to say that we’re taking advantage. From a business
perspective, it’s clearly a negative. There will be a time after
politics where we will be able to get back into that market.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-4>

After the talk was done, many in the audience excitedly rushed the stage
to shake his hand before he disappeared.

Photo
//
Security workers at the entrance to a Trump construction site in Kolkata
on Wednesday, awaiting the arrival of Donald Trump Jr. Credit Dibyangshu
Sarkar/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

If India loves the president’s son, he appears to love it back.

“I think there is something about the spirit of the Indian people that
is unique here to other parts of the emerging world,” Mr. Trump said in
a local television interview earlier in the week. He said, “I don’t want
to be glib but you can see the poorest of the poor and there is still a
smile on a face.”

“I know some of the most successful people in the world and some of them
are the most miserable people in the world,” he added.


    Newsletter Sign Up

Continue reading the main story <#continues-post-newsletter>


      The Interpreter Newsletter

Understand the world with sharp insight and commentary on the major news
stories of the week.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.

Invalid email address. Please re-enter.

You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up

You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services.


Thank you for subscribing.


An error has occurred. Please try again later.


You are already subscribed to this email.

View all New York Times newsletters. <https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters>

  * See Sample
    <http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/sample/the-interpreter?pgtype=subscriptionspage&version=new&contentId=INT&eventName=sample&module=newsletter-sign-up>
  * Privacy Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Opt out or contact us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime

Before speaking at the reception in Mumbai on Thursday evening, Mr.
Trump made a renewed pitch for one of his company’s developments in the
city, meeting with dozens of buyers in the tower overlooking the Arabian
Sea.

After paying 80 million Indian rupees, or $1.2 million, for a
three-bedroom apartment, Sumeet Arora, one of the buyers, expected the
developer to be prompt for the meeting. Instead, they waited for an hour
and a half for Mr. Trump to show up.

When he finally arrived at noon, Mr. Trump gave the well-heeled audience
members a sales pitch on the virtues of the building, even though they
had already collectively pledged millions of dollars on the units, which
are to open by June 2019.

“They’ve got some units left — they wanted us to suggest people as
leads,” Mr. Arora said.

Under the Trump administration, New Delhi is enjoying some ofthe warmest
relations
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/26/us/politics/donald-trump-narendra-modi-india.html>
it has ever had with Washington. For Indian officials, part of the
appeal is the hard line the administration has taken on Pakistan
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/04/us/politics/trump-pakistan-aid.html>, India’s
chief rival. But for many other Indians, it is simply that the Trump
family name seems to them to be synonymous with success.

In New Delhi over the weekend, several of the country’s leading
newspapers carried full front-page ads with the younger Mr. Trump’s
face, arms crossed over his chest with the question: “Trump is here. Are
you invited?”

The ad promised a meeting with the president’s son if prospective buyers
put down a booking fee of about $38,000 for a Trump Organization project
in Gurgaon, just south of New Delhi.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-5>

The promise of a meeting with the younger Mr. Trump was apparently
enough to spur sales, said Kalpesh Mehta of Tribeca Developers, the
Trump Organization’s partner for the Gurgaon project. Mr. Mehta told
local reporters that on Monday alone, when Mr. Trump touched down in New
Delhi to kick off his weeklong tour, the company recorded sales of $15
million. Ground has yet to be broken on the two Trump towers in Gurgaon
— the completion date is in 2023 — but sales have topped $100 million,
Mr. Mehta said.

Mumbai is the financial center of the country and has one of the largest
concentrations of billionaires in the world.

It also has some of its biggest slums.

In the city, formerly known as Bombay, construction cranes and
half-finished buildings dot the skyline. New towers compete with old
ones, as buildings go ever higher to maximize space and provide better
views of the Arabian Sea and the city below.

“Bombay all of a sudden has gone vertical,” said Mr. Arora, whose
current home in a 10-story building in Mumbai’s Juhu neighborhood has
slowly been dwarfed by taller buildings.

Ms. Chawla, the brand consultant who attended the candlelit reception,
said she admired the Trump properties she has seen abroad. But there is
a world of difference between admiring and owning.

“I wish I could afford it,” she said. “I feel really inadequate
sometimes when I come to these things.”

**Maria Abi-Habib reported from New Delhi, and Kai Schultz and Suhasini
Raj from Mumbai. Vindu Goel contributed reporting from New Delhi, and
Eric Lipton from Washington.

A version of this article appears in print on February 23, 2018, on Page
A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Marketing High-Rises in
India, a Trump Son Mixes Sales and Policy. Order Reprints
<http://www.nytreprints.com/>| Today's Paper
<http://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>|Subscribe
<http://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp839RF.html?campaignId=48JQY>


Continue reading the main story <#whats-next>

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. *Tell us what you think.*

<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfLW30xgZodF1qRAg80oWEGuDpW-1HHaL0g42G3SmvB2f4lCw/viewform?entry.8537735=https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/22/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india.html>



  *
  *
  *
  *


    Related Coverage

 1.


        President or Luxury Towers: Either Way, Trump Is the Rage in
        India FEB. 17, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/17/world/trump-tower-india.html>

 2.


        Trump Meets India’s Leader, a Fellow Nationalist Battling China
        for His Favor JUNE 26, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/26/us/politics/donald-trump-narendra-modi-india.html>


 3.


          NEWS ANALYSIS


        Trump White House Tests a Nation’s Capacity for Outrage JULY 24,
        2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/24/us/politics/attorney-general-bush-trump.html>



    Trending

 1.


        Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html>

 2.


        Why He Kayaked Across the Atlantic at 70 (for the Third Time)

    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/03/22/magazine/voyages-kayaking-across-ocean-at-70.html>

 3.


        Trump’s Lawyer Resigns as President Adopts Aggressive Approach
        in Russia Inquiry

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-dowd-resigns-trump-lawyer.html>

 4.


        Unbecoming a Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html>
 5.


        Matter: Was a Tiny Mummy in the Atacama an Alien? No, but the
        Real Story Is Almost...

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/science/ata-mummy-alien-chile.html>
 6.


        Video Shows Las Vegas Gunman Gambling, Eating Alone and Filling
        His Suite With Guns

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/las-vegas-shooting-stephen-paddock.html>

 7.


        Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
        Donald Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html>

 8.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Cynthia Nixon and the Degradation of Experience

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/cynthia-nixon-experience-governor-ny.html>

 9.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Speaking as a White Male …

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/speaking-as-a-white-male.html>

10.


        How the Las Vegas Gunman Planned a Massacre, in 7 Days of Video

    <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/100000005794914/las-vegas-gunman-planned-massacre.html>


View More Trending Stories » <https://www.nytimes.com/trending>


    What's Next

Loading...

//Close this overlay


Go to previous
Go to next

Loading...

Go to Home Page » <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index The New York Times The New York Times
    <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index Navigation


      News

  * World <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


      Opinion

  * Today's Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html>
  * Op-Ed Columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>
  * Video: Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>


      Arts

  * Today's Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Books <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Video: Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>


      Living

  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>
  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Weddings & Celebrations
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>


      Listings & More

  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP>

  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage My Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * NYTCo <http://www.nytco.com/>


      Subscribe

  * Subscribe
  * // Home Delivery <https://www.nytimes.com/hdleftnav>
  * // Digital Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/digitalleftnav>
  * // Crossword
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/games/lp897H9.html?campaignId=49W8Y>


  * Email Newsletters <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newsletters>
  * Alerts <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/mem/tnt.html>
  * Gift Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/giftleftnav>
  * Group Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/corporateleftnav>
  * Education Rate <https://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav>

  * Mobile Applications
    <https://www.nytimes.com/services/mobile/index.html>
  * Replica Edition
    <http://eedition.nytimes.com/cgi-bin/signup.cgi?cc=37FYY>


    Site Information Navigation

  * © 2018The New York Times Company
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html>

  * Home <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * Search <http://query.nytimes.com/search/sitesearch/#/>
  * Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com
    <mailto:accessibility@nytimes.com>. We would love to hear from you.
  * Contact Us
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/infoservdirectory.html>
  * Work With Us <http://www.nytco.com/careers>
  * Advertise <http://nytmediakit.com/>
  * Your Ad Choices
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp>
  * Privacy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Terms of Service
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html>
  * Terms of Sale
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html>


    Site Information Navigation

  * Site Map <http://spiderbites.nytimes.com/>
  * Help <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter/sitehelp.html>
  * Site Feedback <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html>
  * Subscriptions
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW>


Go to the previous story


    Responding to Trump, China Plans New Tariffs on U.S. Goods

Go to the next story
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/china-trump-retaliatory-tariffs.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>



      advertisement

Continue »

//Close this modal window


  * Africa <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/africa>
  * Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/americas>
  * Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia>
  * Australia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/australia>
  * Europe <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe>
  * Middle East <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast>

  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Elections <http://elections.nytimes.com/>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Events <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>

  * DealBook <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/dealbook/index.html>
  * Economy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/economy>
  * Energy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/energy-environment>
  * Markets <http://markets.on.nytimes.com/>
  * Media <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/media>
  * Entrepreneurship
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/smallbusiness>
  * Your Money <https://www.nytimes.com/section/your-money>
  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>

  * Op-Ed Columnists
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>

  * Personal Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology/personaltech>

  * Climate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate>
  * Space & Cosmos <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science/space>

  * Well <https://www.nytimes.com/section/well>
  * Money & Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health/policy>
  * Health Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/index.html>

  * Baseball <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/baseball>
  * Basketball: College
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaabasketball>
  * Basketball: N.B.A. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball>
  * Football: College <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaafootball>
  * Football: N.F.L. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/football>
  * Golf <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/golf>
  * Hockey <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/hockey>
  * Soccer <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/soccer>
  * Tennis <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/tennis>

  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Watching <https://www.nytimes.com/watching>

  * Best Sellers <https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/>
  * By the Book <https://www.nytimes.com/column/by-the-book>
  * The Book Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review>
  * Book Review Podcast
    <https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast>

  * Men's Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/mens-style>
  * On the Runway <https://www.nytimes.com/column/on-the-runway>
  * Weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>

  * Cooking <http://cooking.nytimes.com/>
  * Restaurant Search <https://www.nytimes.com/reviews/dining>

  * The High End <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/the-high-end>
  * Commercial <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate/commercial>
  * iPhone App
    <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/nytimesrealestate/id337316535>
  * Find A Home <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/find-a-home>
  * Mortgage Calculator
    <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/mortgage-calculator>
  * My Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/my-real-estate>
  * List Your Home <https://realestateads.nytimes.com/>

  * U.S. & Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us-politics>
  * International <https://www.nytimes.com/video/world>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/video/n-y-region>
  * Op-Docs <https://www.nytimes.com/video/op-docs>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>
  * Times Documentaries <https://www.nytimes.com/video/times-documentaries>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/video/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/video/technology>
  * Culture <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>
  * Style <https://www.nytimes.com/video/style>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/video/t-magazine>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/video/health>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/video/dining-and-wine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/video/travel>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/video/sports>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/video/real-estate>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/video/science>

  * DealBook <http://nytdealbookconference.com/>
  * ClimateTECH <http://nytclimatetech.com/>
  * Global Strategy Summit <http://nytglobalstrategy.com/>
  * International Luxury Conference <http://nytluxury.com/>
  * Luxury Travel <http://nytluxurytravel.com/>
  * New Work Summit <http://newworksummit.com/>
  * Higher Ed Leaders Forum <http://nythigheredleaders.com/>
  * Athens Democracy Forum <http://athensdemocracyforum.com/>
  * Oil & Money <http://oilandmoney.com/>
  * Art Leaders Network <http://nytartleadersnetwork.com/>

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


  * Charles M. Blow <https://www.nytimes.com/column/charles-m-blow>
  * David Brooks <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-brooks>
  * Frank Bruni <https://www.nytimes.com/column/frank-bruni>
  * Roger Cohen <https://www.nytimes.com/column/roger-cohen>
  * Gail Collins <https://www.nytimes.com/column/gail-collins>
  * Ross Douthat <https://www.nytimes.com/column/ross-douthat>
  * Maureen Dowd <https://www.nytimes.com/column/maureen-dowd>
  * Thomas L. Friedman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/thomas-l-friedman>
  * Nicholas Kristof <https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof>
  * Paul Krugman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/paul-krugman>
  * David Leonhardt <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-leonhardt>
  * Andrew Rosenthal <https://www.nytimes.com/column/andrew-rosenthal>
  * Bret Stephens <https://www.nytimes.com/column/bret-stephens>

//Close this modal window


          Edition

  * English <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * 中文 (Chinese) <http://cn.nytimes.com/>
  * Español <https://www.nytimes.com/es/>


          Help

  * FAQ <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/front.html>
  * Contact Us <http://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>


          Type Size

  * A Type size small <javascript:;>
  * A Type size medium <javascript:;>
  * A Type size large <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


  * Edit Profile <javascript:;>
  * My Account <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>
  * My Billing Information
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/get-started/manage-billing?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F22%2Fworld%2Fasia%2Fdonald-trump-jr-india.html>
  * My Saved Items <http://www.nytimes.com/saved>
  * Log Out

//Close this modal window


      Log in


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F22%2Fworld%2Fasia%2Fdonald-trump-jr-india.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Sign up


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Edit Profile


        Your profile is public. It will appear with any comments you
        leave on NYTimes.com

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Complete your registration for a free New York Times account.
        Registered users can:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Log in to:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F22%2Fworld%2Fasia%2Fdonald-trump-jr-india.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window

