//NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html>
//Sections

// Home

//Search

Skip to content <#story-header> Skip to navigation
<#site-index-navigation> View mobile version
<http://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html>



    The New York Times The New York Times <https://www.nytimes.com/>


            Asia Pacific
            <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/asia/index.html>|Donald
            Trump Jr. Retreats From Foreign Policy on India Trip

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

//Search
Subscribe Now Log In
/118

/ //0 //Settings
//Close search


    Site Search Navigation

Search NYTimes.com
//Clear this text input

Go

https://nyti.ms/2sND7Yf

 1.


        Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/asia/index.html>

     1.
        //


            Responding to Trump, China Plans New Tariffs on U.S. Goods

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/china-trump-retaliatory-tariffs.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     2.
        //


            Beg, Borrow or Steal: How Trump Says China Takes Technology

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/business/china-trump-trade-intellectual-property.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     3.
        //


            In South Korea, Another Former President Lands in Jail

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/south-korea-lee-myung-bak-arrest-corruption.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     4.
        //


              Asia and Australia Edition


            Tariffs, Facebook, Joe Biden: Your Friday Briefing

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/briefing/tariffs-facebook-joe-biden.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     5.
     6.
        //


            Trump’s Trade Threats Put China’s Leader on the Spot

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/donald-trump-tariffs-china.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     7.
        //


            Julie Yip-Williams, Writer of Candid Blog on Cancer, Dies at 42

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/obituaries/julie-yip-williams-dies-writer-of-candid-blog-on-cancer.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     8.
        //


            Wreck of the Juneau Is Found, 76 Years After 5 Brothers Perished

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/uss-juneau-sullivan-brothers.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

     9.
        //


            Trump Says Getting Tough on Chinese Trade Will Empower U.S.
            He Risks the Opposite.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/business/trade-trump-china.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

    10.
        //


            Helicopter Crash on Great Barrier Reef Kills 2 American Tourists

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/australia/helicopter-crash-great-barrier-reef.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>

 2.
    Loading...

See next articles

See previous articles


    Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/asia/index.html>


    Site Navigation

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>

  * More


    Site Mobile Navigation

Advertisement

Supported by


      Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/asia/index.html>


  Donald Trump Jr. Retreats From Foreign Policy on India Trip

By VINDU GOEL <https://www.nytimes.com/by/vindu-goel> and MARIA
ABI-HABIB <https://www.nytimes.com/by/maria-abi-habib>FEB. 23, 2018

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1> Share This Page
Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

/118

/

Photo
//
A newspaper bearing an image of Donald Trump Jr. in New Delhi. Credit
The New York Times

NEW DELHI — After days of controversy
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/22/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india.html>
over whether he would blur the lines between American foreign policy and
his family’s real estate business during a trip to India to sell condos,
Donald Trump Jr. on Friday abandoned plans to give a policy speech and
instead gave an interview with an Indian journalist, sticking to safe
topics.

His remarks in the interview — about his father’s successful 2016
presidential campaign, how little the family sees him now, and India’s
great entrepreneurial spirit — were so anodyne that when the Bollywood
star Shah Rukh Khan entered the room near the end of the interview,
people lifted their phones to take photos of the actor and stopped
paying attention to the oldest child of America’s president.

“I’m here as a businessman,” Mr. Trump told a crowd of about 2,000
business and political leaders, who were gathered for the annual
business conference hosted by India’s most powerful media company, The
Times Group. “I’m not representing anyone.”

But his efforts to distance himself from administration policy were met
with some skepticism.

“Though he claims that it’s not an official speech, we take it as an
official statement,” said P. V. Sunil, a managing director of a company
that builds malls and cinema complexes in India and Singapore. “He
speaks to his father more than anyone here.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

Mr. Trump has spent the last week in India promoting new luxury housing
projects
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/22/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india.html>
in the country, the biggest foreign market for Trump real estate
interests outside of North America.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-2>


    Related Coverage

  *


        As Donald Trump Jr. Drums Up Business in India, Some Ask What’s
        Being Sold FEB. 22, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/22/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india.html>


  *


        President or Luxury Towers: Either Way, Trump Is the Rage in
        India FEB. 17, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/17/world/trump-tower-india.html>


    //Recent Comments


JVG

February 24, 2018

Ivanka in South Korea. Don Jr. in India. I just cannot imagine the hue
and cry if Michelle Obama had been sent as an envoy representing...


Rodger Parsons

February 24, 2018

Far from making America great, Trump has smeared the nation with a level
of perverse self interest and negative nepotism that is the new...


Dr--Bob

February 24, 2018

A trump and truth: never the twain shall meet.

  * See All Comments

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-3>

He originally intended to give a speech Friday on “Indo-Pacific”
cooperation, a policy idea recently championed by President Trump
<https://in.reuters.com/article/usa-china-indo-pacific/indo-pacific-not-from-where-china-is-sitting-idINKBN1DA1Y0>
as a counterweight to China’s rising influence. That sparked an uproar,
underscoring how the Trump family, with some members working in the
White House and others running the family business, has obscured the
traditional line between public and private interests.

Ethicists and former government officials with both major political
parties have raised concerns that foreign-policy decisions made by the
White House could affect the Trump Organization’s business prospects,
and in turn, the president’s wealth. Although the president has turned
over management of the company to Donald Trump Jr. and another son, Eric
Trump, he still holds a huge financial interest in Trump projects around
the world.

Two organizers of Friday’s conference said that they had proposed the
Indo-Pacific topic to Donald Trump Jr.’s team and that he had agreed to
address it. On Thursday, after criticism by ethicists and a Democratic
senator, Mr. Trump requested that the topic be changed, they said.

Shortly after Mr. Trump’s interview, India’s prime minister, Narendra
Modi, gave his own keynote speech about India’s economic progress.

Mr. Trump has downplayed ethical concerns during his India visit, saying
the company’s promise not to seek new foreign projects during his
father’s presidency had hurt its business.

Eric Trump said in an interview on Friday that the criticism of his
brother was unfair and unjustified. He said that although he was not
involved in the discussions regarding his brother’s speech, there was
nothing wrong with the original topic.

“We have been doing business in India for many years,” he said. “I don’t
understand the problem with celebrating the camaraderie between two
great countries.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-4>

During his onstage interview, Donald Trump Jr. went out of his way to
suggest that the Trumps do not mix politics and business, even when they
all get together.

“We see him so little that it’s really about being a family,” he said of
his father. “We don’t talk politics.”

Donald Trump Jr. was deeply involved in his father’s campaign, meeting
with a Russian lawyer who promised political dirt on Hillary Clinton
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/11/us/politics/trump-russia-email-clinton.html>,
the Democratic candidate. That meeting, and how Mr. Trump and the White
House responded to public disclosure of it last July, are now being
scrutinized by
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/31/us/politics/trump-russia-hope-hicks-mueller.html>Robert
S. Mueller III
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/31/us/politics/trump-russia-hope-hicks-mueller.html>,
the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election.


    Newsletter Sign Up

Continue reading the main story <#continues-post-newsletter>


      The Interpreter Newsletter

Understand the world with sharp insight and commentary on the major news
stories of the week.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.

Invalid email address. Please re-enter.

You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up

You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services.


Thank you for subscribing.


An error has occurred. Please try again later.


You are already subscribed to this email.

View all New York Times newsletters. <https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters>

  * See Sample
    <http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/sample/the-interpreter?pgtype=subscriptionspage&version=new&contentId=INT&eventName=sample&module=newsletter-sign-up>
  * Privacy Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Opt out or contact us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime

In India, officials have struggled to understand what the Trump White
House means for Indo-American relations.

“Under Trump, you cannot be sure the policy today will be the policy
tomorrow,” said C. Raja Mohan, a foreign-policy analyst and director of
Carnegie India. “That is a huge problem.”

India views some of the president’s evolving positions as favorable and
others as less so.

His recent criticism of Pakistan as a haven for terrorists has been
music to the ears of leaders in New Delhi, some of whom view that
neighboring country in much the same way. The president has also
signaled that he sees a more important role for India, along with other
traditional American allies like Japan and Australia, in an Indo-Pacific
grouping that would curb Beijing’s influence.

The Trump administration has strengthened military ties with New Delhi
and discussed a flurry of defense agreements, including one that may see
the F-16 fighter jet move its production line from Texas to India.

At the same time, there are significant tensions between the Modi
government and the Trump administration on several critical issues,
including immigration and trade policy.

In an effort to boost Indian manufacturing, the Modi government has
raised tariffs on imported products like electronics and beauty
products. India has also tangled with American drug companies over
patent protections for their products. In 2017, the United States had a
$23 billion trade deficit with India.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-5>

Indian immigrants are also a large segment of the work force of American
technology companies. President Trump campaigned on curbing such
immigration and has gradually tightened the rules governing the H-1B and
other visas used by tech workers.

On Thursday, the administration announced
<https://www.uscis.gov/news/news-releases/uscis-strengthens-protections-combat-h-1b-abuses-clarifies-policy-requirements-third-party-worksite-h-1b-petitions>rules
<https://www.uscis.gov/news/news-releases/uscis-strengthens-protections-combat-h-1b-abuses-clarifies-policy-requirements-third-party-worksite-h-1b-petitions>
that would make it harder for Indian outsourcers that have many
corporate customers to bring workers to the United States and move them
from site to site. Friday’s conference was in full swing as news spread
of the administration’s latest move to restrict H-1B visas.

With the younger Mr. Trump, who has voiced strong support for his
father’s tough stance on immigration, sitting in the audience, Uber’s
chief executive officer, Dara Khosrowshahi, took a dig at the president.

“The American dream is the single most incredible brand in the world,”
said Mr. Khosrowshahi, whose family immigrated from Iran. “I’m worried
that the attitude this American administration has on immigration will
ruin that brand.”

The journalist who interviewed Mr. Trump, Supriya Shrinate, pressed him
on immigration, asking whether he thought it was fair that he could
travel the world and invest in places like India, while the United
States tightened immigration rules.

/Write A Comment

/

Mr. Trump dodged the question, before Ms. Shrinate finally asked: “Is
the American dream still alive? A lot of people in this audience beg to
differ.”

“I think 100 percent it is,” Mr. Trump said.

Eric Lipton contributed reporting from Washington.

A version of this article appears in print on February 24, 2018, on Page
A4 of the New York edition with the headline: On Trip to India, Trump’s
Son Retreats From Foreign Policy. Order Reprints
<http://www.nytreprints.com/>| Today's Paper
<http://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>|Subscribe
<http://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp839RF.html?campaignId=48JQY>


Continue reading the main story <#whats-next>

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. *Tell us what you think.*

<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfLW30xgZodF1qRAg80oWEGuDpW-1HHaL0g42G3SmvB2f4lCw/viewform?entry.8537735=https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html>



  *
  *
  *
  *

//Close this panel


    //118 Comments

Readers shared their thoughts on this article.

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to letters@nytimes.com <mailto:letters@nytimes.com>.

  * All 118
  * Readers’ Picks 103
  * NYT Picks 3

Newest
//


JVG

San Rafael February 24, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26102488>


Ivanka in South Korea. Don Jr. in India. I just cannot imagine the hue
and cry if Michelle Obama had been sent as an envoy representing our
nation on such trips. And she is imminently more qualified to do so.

  * //Flag
  * //15Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Rodger Parsons

NYC February 24, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26100005>


Far from making America great, Trump has smeared the nation with a level
of perverse self interest and negative nepotism that is the new standard
of low. It's bad enough to have a Clown-in-Chief, we did't elect the clan.

  * //Flag
  * //6Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Dr--Bob

Pittsburgh, PA February 24, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26100103>


A trump and truth: never the twain shall meet.

  * //Flag
  * //5Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Chris

Minneapolis February 24, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26101418>


He's going to transfer the F-16 production from Texas to India. I wonder
if any of those plane builders were trump voters. Texas? So much for
bring jobs back to the US. Not only has he not brought a single job home
he is shipping even more of them out of the country. Surprise!

  * //Flag
  * //2Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


bstar

baltimore February 24, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26098243>


Amateur hour. Why on earth do the members of this family think that they
are smart? Don Jr.' thoughts on the Indo-Pacific region? Please.

  * //Flag
  * //1Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


muddyw

upstate ny February 24, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26102794>


I had thought trump was our jobs President. What's this about producing
the F16 in India rather than Texas? How many jobs is this - and how are
those Texans going to vote next time? The lack of ethics in the entire
clan distracts us from all the policies on the environment, lifetime
conservative judges etc. Some things are going to be hard to correct.

  * //Flag
  * //2Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Charlie

Little Ferry, NJ February 24, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26100396>


This is the core essence of Donald Trump: policy for profit. I wish his
constituents and base would come to this realization. He has no care for
the American people unless there's money to be made.

  * //Flag
  * //2Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Mat

Kerberos February 24, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26100551>


Outsourcing the production of the F-16? Is that routine for military
technology?

  * //Flag
  * //3Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


sixmile

New York, N.Y. February 24, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26098119>


"During his onstage interview, Donald Trump Jr. went out of his way to
suggest that the Trumps do not mix politics and business, even when they
all get together." No need to mix them because for the Trumps politics
and business are one and the same.

  * //Flag
  * //2Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


KB

WA February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26096911>


The kids are trying to trump each other. Guess Donny folded first,
probably realizing Javanka has most favored children status. Could it be
more twisted? Of course, it can and it will as time rolls on.

  * //Flag
  * //8Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Paul

NJ February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26098089>


Do we know anything yet about the expanded portfolio Jared Kushner is
working on?

  * //Flag
  * //8Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Fred

Up North February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26097739>


Is he any brighter than his father?
If so, then maybe he should be in the State Department if he can pass
the Foreign Service Officers Exam. I am sure Dad couldn't.

  * //Flag
  * //5Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


ClearedtoLand

WDC February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26096887>


I'm surprised he didn't address the massively corrupt Indian
pharmaceutical industry; he would have among ideological kin with the
hucksters who routinely provide fraudulently labeled, fake assay, active
ingredient-missing products that sail right into the USA, generally with
impunity.

  * //Flag
  * //2Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Joan Wheeler

New Orleans February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26097717>


I still want to know if tax payers covered the ccost of Junior's trip to
India. If it was a business trip, the Trump Organization should foot the
bill. Junior has no official role in the Administration, so he should
pay his own way. The Trump family is already ripping off taxpayers by
their other extravagant expenditures. Enough is enough!!!

  * //Flag
  * //13Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


BobbNT

Philadelphia, PA February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26097085>


Always so much to react to with disgust when it comes to this
self-indulgent narcissistic family but this quote of Trump Jr in a
related article on "liddle" Donny''s trip to India, ranks right up
there. He was quoted in a related NYT article as having said this about
the Indian people:

“I don’t want to be glib but you can see the poorest of the poor and
there is still a smile on a face.” That sentiment ranks right up their
to his father's throwing paper towels in Puerto Rico after the tragic
hurricane devastation. There is not a shred of humanity there.
The rotten apple doesn't fall far from the rotten tree.

  * //Flag
  * //7Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


sueinmn

minnesota February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26097451>


What what ever became of the notion that the trump boys would run the
business and stay out of politics? We all know they all lie, it's part
of their DNA but they should be removed dead occasionally as they always
seem to get into trouble.

  * //Flag
  * //3Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Blue

St Petersburg FL February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26097462>


When the Trump family was elected did anyone expect anything different?

  * //Flag
  * //8Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


matty

boston ma February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26097488>


The more and longer we allow the Trumps to try to get away with this,
the more of the wrong precedent it is going to set.

Jared, when giving that speech some months ago that went something like
: ".......part of the problem is people assuming things need to be done
the way they have been... " should have been the reddest of red flags.

  * //Flag
  * //4Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Blackwater

Seattle February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26096945>


This is so ridiculous. The entire Trump horde sees the world as a piggy
bank to loot. No separation at all between the Trump Organization and
the US Government; they see the emoluments clause as more of a Santa Claus.

I'm confident the Mueller investigation team has Trumpian tax returns,
and eventually the truth will come out, as the Trumps head into, jail
cells.

  * //Flag
  * //11Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Lillie NYC

New York, NY February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26097383>


The house of Trump is a truly gruesome enterprise. Shameless in a way
we've never seen before.

  * //Flag
  * //13Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Rinwood

New York February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26097866>


If he wasn't so greedy and mean-spirited it would be sad -- Willy Loman Jr.

  * //Flag
  * //5Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Humanoid

Dublin February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26097820>


You left out the bit about him, incredibly, talking about how Happy the
poor in India seemed to him as he passed them by, and what a contrast
they are to the poor at home. (The journalist and people he was saying
that to, knowing which side their bread’s buttered on, said Nothing at
all about this offensively insulting comment.)

Who else but a Trump would visit a country still battling great poverty,
where many millions of people don’t have electricity, clean water, basic
sanitation, yet start rambling about The Happy Indian Poor?

Now, if you were wealthy enough to make it into that particular shindig,
the poor of any nation, let alone India, would have been the Last thing
on your mind. Still, having that dimwit say That particularly clueless,
patronizing remark makes me think that Eric, hitherto ‘The Dumb One’,
*really* has to up his game if he’s to retain his title, given the
significant efforts of his brother and father in recent times.

The Happy Poor. Give me a break ... from such Entitled idiocy.

  * //Flag
  * //17Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


Janet Michael

Silver Spring Maryland February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26097945>


The whole Trump clan is delusional! Just because they own a few
buildings(heavily mortgaged) they think they are experts on foreign and
domestic policy.Their real talent is to cheapen everything they touch
and make themselves the target of suspicion and derision.They all work
for Trump Inc. and our precious Democracy be damned.

  * //Flag
  * //11Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


KP

Colorado February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26096280>


I wish my dad is the president so that I can talk about foreign policy
overseas although I don't know anything about it.
DT's family is getting busy selling things before the dad is impeached.
Fire sale anyone?

  * //Flag
  * //28Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter


The HouseDog

Seattle February 23, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india-modi.html#permid=26095587>


Kakistocracy

  * //Flag
  * //11Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

Loading...
Read More //

View all 118 comments


    //118 Comments

Readers shared their thoughts on this article.

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to letters@nytimes.com <mailto:letters@nytimes.com>.

  * All 118
  * Readers’ Picks 103
  * NYT Picks 3

Newest
//


    Related Coverage

 1.


        As Donald Trump Jr. Drums Up Business in India, Some Ask What’s
        Being Sold FEB. 22, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/22/world/asia/donald-trump-jr-india.html>


 2.


        President or Luxury Towers: Either Way, Trump Is the Rage in
        India FEB. 17, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/17/world/trump-tower-india.html>


    Trending

 1.


        Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html>

 2.


        Why He Kayaked Across the Atlantic at 70 (for the Third Time)

    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/03/22/magazine/voyages-kayaking-across-ocean-at-70.html>

 3.


        Trump’s Lawyer Resigns as President Adopts Aggressive Approach
        in Russia Inquiry

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-dowd-resigns-trump-lawyer.html>

 4.


        Unbecoming a Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html>
 5.


        Matter: Was a Tiny Mummy in the Atacama an Alien? No, but the
        Real Story Is Almost...

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/science/ata-mummy-alien-chile.html>
 6.


        Video Shows Las Vegas Gunman Gambling, Eating Alone and Filling
        His Suite With Guns

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/las-vegas-shooting-stephen-paddock.html>

 7.


        Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
        Donald Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html>

 8.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Cynthia Nixon and the Degradation of Experience

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/cynthia-nixon-experience-governor-ny.html>

 9.


        How the Las Vegas Gunman Planned a Massacre, in 7 Days of Video

    <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/100000005794914/las-vegas-gunman-planned-massacre.html>

10.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Speaking as a White Male …

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/speaking-as-a-white-male.html>


View More Trending Stories » <https://www.nytimes.com/trending>


    What's Next

Loading...

//Close this overlay


Go to previous
Go to next

Loading...

Go to Home Page » <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index The New York Times The New York Times
    <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index Navigation


      News

  * World <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


      Opinion

  * Today's Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html>
  * Op-Ed Columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>
  * Video: Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>


      Arts

  * Today's Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Books <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Video: Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>


      Living

  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>
  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Weddings & Celebrations
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>


      Listings & More

  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP>

  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage My Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * NYTCo <http://www.nytco.com/>


      Subscribe

  * Subscribe
  * // Home Delivery <https://www.nytimes.com/hdleftnav>
  * // Digital Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/digitalleftnav>
  * // Crossword
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/games/lp897H9.html?campaignId=49W8Y>


  * Email Newsletters <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newsletters>
  * Alerts <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/mem/tnt.html>
  * Gift Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/giftleftnav>
  * Group Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/corporateleftnav>
  * Education Rate <https://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav>

  * Mobile Applications
    <https://www.nytimes.com/services/mobile/index.html>
  * Replica Edition
    <http://eedition.nytimes.com/cgi-bin/signup.cgi?cc=37FYY>


    Site Information Navigation

  * © 2018The New York Times Company
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html>

  * Home <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * Search <http://query.nytimes.com/search/sitesearch/#/>
  * Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com
    <mailto:accessibility@nytimes.com>. We would love to hear from you.
  * Contact Us
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/infoservdirectory.html>
  * Work With Us <http://www.nytco.com/careers>
  * Advertise <http://nytmediakit.com/>
  * Your Ad Choices
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp>
  * Privacy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Terms of Service
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html>
  * Terms of Sale
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html>


    Site Information Navigation

  * Site Map <http://spiderbites.nytimes.com/>
  * Help <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter/sitehelp.html>
  * Site Feedback <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html>
  * Subscriptions
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW>


Go to the previous story


    Responding to Trump, China Plans New Tariffs on U.S. Goods

Go to the next story
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/china-trump-retaliatory-tariffs.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/asia>



      advertisement

Continue »

//Close this modal window


  * Africa <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/africa>
  * Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/americas>
  * Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia>
  * Australia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/australia>
  * Europe <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe>
  * Middle East <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast>

  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Elections <http://elections.nytimes.com/>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Events <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>

  * DealBook <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/dealbook/index.html>
  * Economy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/economy>
  * Energy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/energy-environment>
  * Markets <http://markets.on.nytimes.com/>
  * Media <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/media>
  * Entrepreneurship
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/smallbusiness>
  * Your Money <https://www.nytimes.com/section/your-money>
  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>

  * Op-Ed Columnists
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>

  * Personal Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology/personaltech>

  * Climate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate>
  * Space & Cosmos <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science/space>

  * Well <https://www.nytimes.com/section/well>
  * Money & Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health/policy>
  * Health Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/index.html>

  * Baseball <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/baseball>
  * Basketball: College
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaabasketball>
  * Basketball: N.B.A. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball>
  * Football: College <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaafootball>
  * Football: N.F.L. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/football>
  * Golf <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/golf>
  * Hockey <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/hockey>
  * Soccer <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/soccer>
  * Tennis <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/tennis>

  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Watching <https://www.nytimes.com/watching>

  * Best Sellers <https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/>
  * By the Book <https://www.nytimes.com/column/by-the-book>
  * The Book Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review>
  * Book Review Podcast
    <https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast>

  * Men's Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/mens-style>
  * On the Runway <https://www.nytimes.com/column/on-the-runway>
  * Weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>

  * Cooking <http://cooking.nytimes.com/>
  * Restaurant Search <https://www.nytimes.com/reviews/dining>

  * The High End <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/the-high-end>
  * Commercial <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate/commercial>
  * iPhone App
    <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/nytimesrealestate/id337316535>
  * Find A Home <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/find-a-home>
  * Mortgage Calculator
    <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/mortgage-calculator>
  * My Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/my-real-estate>
  * List Your Home <https://realestateads.nytimes.com/>

  * U.S. & Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us-politics>
  * International <https://www.nytimes.com/video/world>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/video/n-y-region>
  * Op-Docs <https://www.nytimes.com/video/op-docs>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>
  * Times Documentaries <https://www.nytimes.com/video/times-documentaries>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/video/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/video/technology>
  * Culture <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>
  * Style <https://www.nytimes.com/video/style>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/video/t-magazine>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/video/health>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/video/dining-and-wine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/video/travel>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/video/sports>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/video/real-estate>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/video/science>

  * DealBook <http://nytdealbookconference.com/>
  * ClimateTECH <http://nytclimatetech.com/>
  * Global Strategy Summit <http://nytglobalstrategy.com/>
  * International Luxury Conference <http://nytluxury.com/>
  * Luxury Travel <http://nytluxurytravel.com/>
  * New Work Summit <http://newworksummit.com/>
  * Higher Ed Leaders Forum <http://nythigheredleaders.com/>
  * Athens Democracy Forum <http://athensdemocracyforum.com/>
  * Oil & Money <http://oilandmoney.com/>
  * Art Leaders Network <http://nytartleadersnetwork.com/>

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


  * Charles M. Blow <https://www.nytimes.com/column/charles-m-blow>
  * David Brooks <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-brooks>
  * Frank Bruni <https://www.nytimes.com/column/frank-bruni>
  * Roger Cohen <https://www.nytimes.com/column/roger-cohen>
  * Gail Collins <https://www.nytimes.com/column/gail-collins>
  * Ross Douthat <https://www.nytimes.com/column/ross-douthat>
  * Maureen Dowd <https://www.nytimes.com/column/maureen-dowd>
  * Thomas L. Friedman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/thomas-l-friedman>
  * Nicholas Kristof <https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof>
  * Paul Krugman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/paul-krugman>
  * David Leonhardt <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-leonhardt>
  * Andrew Rosenthal <https://www.nytimes.com/column/andrew-rosenthal>
  * Bret Stephens <https://www.nytimes.com/column/bret-stephens>

//Close this modal window


Verified Commenters
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/usercontent/verified/verified-commenters.html>
can leave comments on NYTimes.com without initial moderation. Verified
status is earned based on a history of quality comments.
//Close this modal window


          Edition

  * English <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * 中文 (Chinese) <http://cn.nytimes.com/>
  * Español <https://www.nytimes.com/es/>


          Help

  * FAQ <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/front.html>
  * Contact Us <http://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>


          Type Size

  * A Type size small <javascript:;>
  * A Type size medium <javascript:;>
  * A Type size large <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


  * Edit Profile <javascript:;>
  * My Account <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>
  * My Billing Information
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/get-started/manage-billing?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F23%2Fworld%2Fasia%2Fdonald-trump-jr-india-modi.html>
  * My Saved Items <http://www.nytimes.com/saved>
  * Log Out

//Close this modal window


      Log in


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F23%2Fworld%2Fasia%2Fdonald-trump-jr-india-modi.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Sign up


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Edit Profile


        Your profile is public. It will appear with any comments you
        leave on NYTimes.com

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Complete your registration for a free New York Times account.
        Registered users can:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Log in to:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F23%2Fworld%2Fasia%2Fdonald-trump-jr-india-modi.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window

