//NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html>
//Sections

//Home

//Search

Skip to content <#story-header> Skip to navigation
<#site-index-navigation> View mobile version
<http://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/02/11/health/gottlieb-fda-drugs.html>


The New York Times The New York Times <https://www.nytimes.com/>


Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>


            Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>|F.D.A. Chief
            Goes Against the Administration Stereotype

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

//Close search


    Site Search Navigation

Search NYTimes.com
//Clear this text input

Go

https://nyti.ms/2BRIIka


    Site Navigation

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>

  * More


    Site Mobile Navigation

Cover Photo
Scott Gottlieb, the Food and Drug Administration commissioner, has tried
to win over critics while also paying attention to the concerns of the
drug and health industries. Credit Eric Thayer for The New York Times


  F.D.A. Chief Goes Against
  the Administration Stereotype

Dr. Scott Gottlieb isn’t rolling back his agency’s
mission, although he is straddling the interests of the
drug and health industries along with public health.

By SHEILA KAPLAN <https://www.nytimes.com/by/sheila-kaplan> and KATIE
THOMAS <https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-thomas>FEB. 11, 2018

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1> Share This Page
Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

WASHINGTON — Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug
Administration, came to the job with a résumé straight out of the Trump
administration’s playbook.

A millionaire with a libertarian bent, he made his money working for the
industry he now regulates, and had investments in 20 health care
companies whose products could come before the agency for approval.
Pharmaceutical and medical device executives enthusiastically supported
his nomination, while consumer and public health groups sounded the
requisite alarms.

“Unprecedented financial entanglements,” complained Senator Patty
Murray, Democrat of Washington, during his confirmation hearing
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/05/us/politics/fda-nominee-scott-gottlieb-food-drug-administration-confirmation-hearing.html>.

Now, more than nine months after he was confirmed, Dr. Gottlieb has
achieved something unusual among President Trump’s appointees: He has
quieted some skeptics, while also managing to keep industry supporters
content and the president on his side. He has done so by making moves to
protect public health while also offering rewards to industry — double
plays that have some willing to give him a second look.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>
Supported by


    Related Coverage

  *


        F.D.A. Speeds Review of Gene Therapies, Vowing to Target Rogue
        Clinics NOV. 16, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/16/health/fda-gene-cell-therapy.html>

  *


          THE NEW OLD AGE


        Some Older Smokers Turn to Vaping. That May Not Be a Bad Idea.
        DEC. 8, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/08/health/smokers-vaping-ecigarettes-elderly.html>


  *


        Senate Confirms Scott Gottlieb to Head F.D.A. MAY 9, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/09/health/scott-gottlieb-senate-fda-commissioner.html>


  *


        F.D.A. Nominee Deflects Criticism About Ties to Drugmakers at
        Hearing APRIL 5, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/05/us/politics/fda-nominee-scott-gottlieb-food-drug-administration-confirmation-hearing.html>


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-2>

“He doesn’t want to blow up the agency,” said Mark I. Schwartz, a
Washington lawyer who worked at the F.D.A. in Republican and Democratic
administrations.

Dr. Gottlieb has briefed Mr. Trump several times on agency issues, like
opioids and generic drugs. During a dinner at the World Economic Forum
in Davos, Switzerland, last month, President Trump told a group of
European business executives, including a few from the pharmaceutical
industry, that “Scott Gottlieb, as you know, is a star
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-dinner-european-business-leaders/>.”

So far, the commissioner has displayed a collaborative management style,
seeming to allay the concerns of some career employees who had balked at
his industry ties and were dismayed by articles he had written
criticizing the F.D.A. He has overcome some divisions by promoting
several agency veterans, but he has also hired a few industry insiders
for top positions. He is described by staff as energetic and intense,
while holding town hall-style meetings before making decisions.

Photo
//
Dr. Jean Rinaldi, left, showing Dr. Gottlieb the cardiac devices
laboratory of the F.D.A.’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health in
Silver Spring, Md. Credit Michael J. Ermarth/United States Food and Drug
Administration

“He’s being thoughtful; he’s being deliberative,” said William Hubbard,
who retired from the F.D.A. after 30 years, including work as a
consultant to a former commissioner, Dr. Margaret A. Hamburg, until she
stepped down in 2015. “He seems to be putting aside some of his more
extreme rhetoric from when he was outside, and working through the
issues with a public-health orientation.”

Although Dr. Gottlieb declined to be interviewed for this article, he is
quite chatty online. He issues lengthy statements after nearly every
major decision, and banters on Twitter, chiding reporters for eating
unsafe Thanksgiving leftovers
<https://twitter.com/SGottliebFDA/status/935672755722313734> or laughing
along at jokes about his skinny jeans
<https://twitter.com/sgottliebfda/status/903682274289491969?lang=en>, or
his prized backyard chickens
<https://twitter.com/sgottliebfda/status/938880932903342080>.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-3>

“I thought he was a bad pick,” said Andrew Kolodny, a co-director of
opioid policy research at Brandeis University. “But I may have been wrong.”

Dr. Kolodny singled out the agency’s success last summer in getting Endo
Pharmaceuticals to stop selling an extended-release opioid, Opana ER,
citing its concerns that the drug’s benefits no longer outweighed the
risk of abuse
<https://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm562401.htm>.


        Critical decisions ahead

Even as Dr. Gottlieb makes some progress, there are major unsettled
regulatory matters before the agency. They include the extent to which
drug companies can market their products for off-label uses as well as
how much oversight is needed for the laboratory-developed tests that
hospitals and doctors often use to detect conditions ranging from heart
disease to ovarian cancer — a booming business.

Among the most far-reaching decisions will be the efforts taken to
reduce the time for drug companies to develop new drugs.

“That is where anxiety lies,” said Mr. Hubbard, who added that the key
will be ensuring that, in moving new products to market more quickly,
public health is not compromised. “The test will be whether he can do
that safely, and we won’t know the results of that for quite some time.”

Some early decisions have drawn criticism, like postponing requirements
for food companies to note sugar and other nutritional information on
package labels. Another sparked an outcry when Dr. Gottlieb partly
reversed his own position
<https://www.statnews.com/2018/01/16/gottlieb-fda-response-letters/>,
deciding against disclosing the reasons the agency gives drug companies
when it turns down products.

He has taken steps to speed drug and device approvals, and has promised
to do more.

Dr. Michael Carome, director of the consumer group Public Citizen’s
health research arm and a former health department official, opposed Dr.
Gottlieb for the job, and has not seen anything to change his mind.

“The bottom line is this: He’s pursuing a pro-industry deregulatory
agenda that ultimately is going to put patients at risk,” Dr. Carome
said. “The F.D.A. now views industry as their customers, and they need
to keep them happy.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-4>


        A government past

Dr. Gottlieb’s Republican credentials made him a strong candidate for
the agency’s top post from the beginning. He had previously worked for
both the Department of Health and Human Services and the F.D.A. during
the administration of President George W. Bush.

But his chances were not clear early last year, after President Trump
vowed to slash drug regulations and, in an address to Congress,
described the F.D.A.’s approval process as “slow and burdensome
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-joint-address-congress/>.”
Other names surfaced, likeJim O’Neill, an associate of the Silicon
Valley billionaire Peter Thiel
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/05/health/with-fda-vacancy-trump-sees-chance-to-speed-drugs-to-the-market.html>.
Mr. O’Neill had suggested that drugs could be approved without first
proving they worked and supported the creation of colonies at sea that
would be beyond government reach.

Those views made Dr. Gottlieb look mainstream by comparison. So after a
hearing that focused on his ties to the drug and device industry, he was
confirmed by the Senate, 57 to 42
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/09/health/scott-gottlieb-senate-fda-commissioner.html>,
on May 9.

Critics pointed to Dr. Gottlieb’s stints on advisory boards for
pharmaceutical companies, among them GlaxoSmithKline and Daiichi Sankyo,
and his consultant work for others, including Vertex Pharmaceuticals and
Bristol-Myers Squibb.

His investments through New Enterprise Associates, a venture capital
firm, and T.R. Winston & Company, an investment bank, were also called
into question. Earlier in Dr. Gottlieb’s career, before attending the
Mount Sinai School of Medicine, he worked as a health care investment
banking analyst for Alex. Brown & Sons.

That experience, Dr. Gottlieb has said, benefits the F.D.A. because it
helps him understand the industry. He has recused himself for two years
from matters concerning about 20 companies with which he was associated
— in accordance with the White House ethics pledge. The day he was sworn
in, he sold all of his health-related stock, including investments in
Tolero Pharmaceuticals, Collective Health and U.S. Renal Care, according
to a financial report filed with the Office of Government Ethics. He
purchased government bond funds.

Like most of Mr. Trump’s appointees, Dr. Gottlieb has also hired
industry lawyers and lobbyists whose former clients often have business
before the agency. Among them are Jack Kalavritinos, an associate
commissioner who had lobbied for the device maker Covidien, now owned by
Medtronic, for seven years; Nina Devlin, a senior communications adviser
who was the head of global communications at Mylan, makers of the
EpiPen; and Rebecca K. Wood, who was a partner in the law firm Sidley
Austin and is now the agency’s top lawyer.

According to her financial disclosure forms, Ms. Wood did legal work for
many of the drug industry’s largest companies and trade groups,
including AbbVie, Bayer, St. Jude Medical and the Medical Information
Working Group <http://www.miwg.org/>, which favors the expansion of
off-label uses for drugs. She also worked for New Enterprise Associates,
in which Dr. Gottlieb was a venture partner. An agency spokeswoman said
that Ms. Wood has had to recuse herself already from several matters,
but declined to detail the issues involved.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-5>


        A balancing act

By taking a more conventional approach to the job, Dr. Gottlieb stands
out among other presidential appointees, some of whom
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/11/us/politics/scott-pruitt-epa.html>
have aggressively rolled
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/25/us/politics/interior-secretary-zinke-staff-conservation-regulations.html>
back regulations or are curtailing the scope of their agencies’ powers,
as at the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy.

He has already disagreed with an administration position, objecting to a
plan to move an international food-safety division to the trade office,
saying it would hurt the country’s reputation as a food watchdog.

Photo
//
An F.D.A. advisory panel recently rejected requests by Philip Morris
International to market a new product, IQOS, that uses a heated tobacco
stick, as safer than cigarettes. Credit Peter Nicholls/Reuters

The administration backed down on the trade matter, but Dr. Gottlieb has
been forced to compromise on other issues. Last October, he questioned
proposals backed by Vice President Mike Pence and others that would give
terminally ill patients greater access to experimental treatments. He
did make a concession — promising that the F.D.A. would find a way to
make it easier for patients to get some of those treatments, although he
noted that the agency already approves 99 percent of such requests. Mr.
Trump also recently told Republican lawmakers that Dr. Gottlieb was
leading the effort to get legislation passed by Congress.

That balancing act has also been on display in Dr. Gottlieb’s approach
to regulating tobacco. Last July, he sent tobacco stocks into a dive
after he vowed to take aggressive steps to render cigarettes
nonaddictive by forcing manufacturers to cut nicotine levels.

But even as he railed against big tobacco, Dr. Gottlieb softened the
blow by delaying for several years the deadline for companies to comply
with tough new rules on e-cigarettes, cigars and other products.


    Newsletter Sign Up

Continue reading the main story <#continues-post-newsletter>


      The Well Newsletter

Get the best of Well, with the latest on health, fitness and nutrition,
delivered to your inbox every week.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.

Invalid email address. Please re-enter.

You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up

You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services.


Thank you for subscribing.


An error has occurred. Please try again later.


You are already subscribed to this email.

View all New York Times newsletters. <https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters>

  * See Sample
    <http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/sample/well?pgtype=subscriptionspage&version=lifestyle&contentId=HH&eventName=sample&module=newsletter-sign-up>
  * Privacy Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Opt out or contact us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime

At the time, he said smokers needed better and more substitutes to get
them off nicotine.

But whether he can maintain that balance remains to be seen: Last month,
an F.D.A. advisory committee rejected a major alternative tobacco
product to be considered under the new regulations, saying its
manufacturer, Philip Morris International, could not claim it was safer
than cigarettes. The product under review was the IQOS, a heated tobacco
stick device that the company wanted to market as a healthier
alternative to cigarettes.

If the industry can’t overcome such hurdles for approval or finds the
process too cumbersome and expensive — Philip Morris is spending
billions of dollars developing smoking alternatives that would need
agency approval — Dr. Gottlieb’s efforts to straddle the division
between public health and commerce could be hobbled.

Despite the panel’s rejection — the experts questioned the science
behind the product — agency officials were quick to say they would
continue reviewing Philip Morris’s studies and would ask for more
information.

Kenneth Warner, a tobacco control expert and dean emeritus of the
University of Michigan School of Public Health, said he found it
surprising that the F.D.A. was taking such strong steps to rein in the
tobacco industry. “It’s somewhat ironic to me that it takes a Republican
administration to think about a new regulation like that, that would
have a benefit for public health,” he said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-6>

Congressional Democrats, though, are still smarting from Dr. Gottlieb’s
decision to extend the deadline for compliance with new e-cigarette
rules, which took effect in 2016. The rules called for companies with
products already on the market to disclose their contents and to prove
their positive impact on public health in order to gain approval.

Before becoming commissioner, Dr. Gottlieb served on the board of
directors of Kure
<https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-19/vaping-venture-poses-potential-conflict-for-trump-s-fda-nominee>,
a retailer that sells e-cigarette products in lounge-like settings. He
has since sold his stake in Kure and said he would recuse himself from
any decisions involving the company for two years.


        Tackling anger over drug prices

High drug prices — and what to do about them — were a frequent topic of
the last election, and the Trump administration seems poised to offer
some new proposals in its budget.

Here, Dr. Gottlieb has shifted the agency’s position. F.D.A. officials
have traditionally said that regulating prices is beyond the agency’s
purview. But Dr. Gottlieb has taken steps to encourage more competition
for products that have lost patent protection, including shortening an
agency backlog for approvals of new generic drugs and publishing a list
of off-patent drugs for which there is no alternative.

He surprised critics by holding up for ridicule brand-name drug
companies that had refused to supply would-be rivals with samples of
their drugs to deter generic competition.

“End the shenanigans,” Dr. Gottlieb said
<https://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Speeches/ucm584195.htm>at a Federal
Trade Commission meeting
<https://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Speeches/ucm584195.htm> in November.

The commissioner’s actions so far are likely to do little to
substantially lower prices for most Americans, and they notably do not
address the towering prices that brand-name drugmakers set for their
products.

Still, Chester Davis Jr., president and chief executive of the
Association for Accessible Medicines, which represents generic drug
companies, was effusive. “The commissioner has been very effective in
using his bully pulpit to shine a very bright light on anti-competitive
practices,” Mr. Davis said.

Another closely watched decision will be Dr. Gottlieb’s response to the
charged question of how broadly drug companies can market products for
unapproved uses. The pharmaceutical industry has won
<http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/04/business/ruling-backs-drug-industry-on-off-label-marketing.html>
some court cases
<https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/09/business/fda-deal-allows-amarin-to-promote-drug-for-off-label-use.html>
by arguing that companies have a First Amendment right to promote
products for conditions that have not been sanctioned by the agency.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-7>

Before becoming commissioner, Dr. Gottlieb supported
<https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB119786300762133127> so-called “off
label” promotion. He has not yet moved to issue final guidelines, first
proposed under the Obama administration, that will let drugmakers
discuss unapproved uses with entities like insurance companies. He has
also issued few warning letters to drug companies for deceptive advertising.

Any decision the agency makes worries people like Dr. Joshua M.
Sharfstein, who was at the F.D.A. in the Obama administration. “If the
F.D.A. surrenders on First Amendment issues, there could be very serious
consequences for the agency’s ability to do its job,” he said.

Senator Murray is still concerned about Dr. Gottlieb’s leadership,
saying the agency wasn’t doing enough on nutrition or to keep children
away from tobacco products. She added that “the F.D.A. is too often
focused on doing what’s best for massive corporations, rather than
patients and families.”

Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, was also an early
critic, but she has grown more supportive. “Dr. Gottlieb is willing to
tackle tough problems,” Senator Warren said. “I let him know when I
think he’s got it wrong, and when he’s got it right.”

Jennifer Miller, an assistant professor and clinical trials transparency
expert at New York University School of Medicine, said a pilot program
started by Dr. Gottlieb, in which pharmaceutical firms voluntarily
release information about their clinical studies for approved drugs, was
a step in the right direction.

“The industry is already trending toward releasing them,” Dr. Miller
said. “It’s a safe time to roll out a pilot. I think he’ll likely be
successful and learn what works and what didn’t.”

Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. <http://bit.ly/2lBqhqv> | Sign up for the
Science Times newsletter. <http://nyti.ms/1MbHaRU>

A version of this article appears in print on February 12, 2018, on Page
A1 of the New York edition with the headline: F.D.A. Chief Doesn’t Quite
Fit The Administration Stereotype. Order Reprints
<http://www.nytreprints.com/>| Today's Paper
<http://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>|Subscribe
<http://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp839RF.html?campaignId=48JQY>


Continue reading the main story <#whats-next>


  *
  *
  *
  *


    Trump Rules <https://www.nytimes.com/series/trump-rules-regulations>


      Articles in this series examine the reshaping of regulations under
      the Trump administration.

  *


        How $225,000 Can Help Secure a Pollution Loophole at Trump’s E.P.A.
        FEB 15

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/15/us/politics/epa-pollution-loophole-glider-trucks.html?rref=collection%2Fseriescollection%2FTrump%20Rules>


  *


        When Picking Apples on a Farm With 5,000 Rules, Watch Out for
        the Ladders
        DEC 27

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/27/business/picking-apples-on-a-farm-with-5000-rules-watch-out-for-the-ladders.html?rref=collection%2Fseriescollection%2FTrump%20Rules>


  *


        Under Trump, E.P.A. Has Slowed Actions Against Polluters, and
        Put Limits on Enforcement Officers
        DEC 10

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/10/us/politics/pollution-epa-regulations.html?rref=collection%2Fseriescollection%2FTrump%20Rules>


  *


        How Trump’s Hands-Off Approach to Policing Is Frustrating Some
        Chiefs
        NOV 21

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/21/us/trump-justice-department-police.html?rref=collection%2Fseriescollection%2FTrump%20Rules>


  *


        Trump Wants More Big Infrastructure Projects. The Obstacles Can
        Be Big, Too.
        NOV 18

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/18/business/trump-wants-more-big-infrastructure-projects-the-obstacles-can-be-big-too.html?rref=collection%2Fseriescollection%2FTrump%20Rules>


See More » <https://www.nytimes.com/series/trump-rules-regulations>

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. *Tell us what you think.*

<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfLW30xgZodF1qRAg80oWEGuDpW-1HHaL0g42G3SmvB2f4lCw/viewform?entry.8537735=https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/11/health/gottlieb-fda-drugs.html>



    Related Coverage

 1.


        F.D.A. Speeds Review of Gene Therapies, Vowing to Target Rogue
        Clinics NOV. 16, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/16/health/fda-gene-cell-therapy.html>

 2.


          THE NEW OLD AGE


        Some Older Smokers Turn to Vaping. That May Not Be a Bad Idea.
        DEC. 8, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/08/health/smokers-vaping-ecigarettes-elderly.html>


 3.


        Senate Confirms Scott Gottlieb to Head F.D.A. MAY 9, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/09/health/scott-gottlieb-senate-fda-commissioner.html>


 4.


        F.D.A. Nominee Deflects Criticism About Ties to Drugmakers at
        Hearing APRIL 5, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/05/us/politics/fda-nominee-scott-gottlieb-food-drug-administration-confirmation-hearing.html>



    Trending

 1.


        Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html>

 2.


        Why He Kayaked Across the Atlantic at 70 (for the Third Time)

    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/03/22/magazine/voyages-kayaking-across-ocean-at-70.html>

 3.


        Trump’s Lawyer Resigns as President Adopts Aggressive Approach
        in Russia Inquiry

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-dowd-resigns-trump-lawyer.html>

 4.


        Unbecoming a Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html>
 5.


        Matter: Was a Tiny Mummy in the Atacama an Alien? No, but the
        Real Story Is Almost...

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/science/ata-mummy-alien-chile.html>
 6.


        Video Shows Las Vegas Gunman Gambling, Eating Alone and Filling
        His Suite With Guns

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/las-vegas-shooting-stephen-paddock.html>

 7.


        Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
        Donald Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html>

 8.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Cynthia Nixon and the Degradation of Experience

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/cynthia-nixon-experience-governor-ny.html>

 9.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Speaking as a White Male …

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/speaking-as-a-white-male.html>

10.


        How the Las Vegas Gunman Planned a Massacre, in 7 Days of Video

    <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/100000005794914/las-vegas-gunman-planned-massacre.html>


View More Trending Stories » <https://www.nytimes.com/trending>


    What's Next

Loading...

//Close this overlay


Go to previous
Go to next

Loading...

Go to Home Page » <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index The New York Times The New York Times
    <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index Navigation


      News

  * World <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


      Opinion

  * Today's Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html>
  * Op-Ed Columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>
  * Video: Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>


      Arts

  * Today's Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Books <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Video: Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>


      Living

  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>
  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Weddings & Celebrations
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>


      Listings & More

  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP>

  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage My Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * NYTCo <http://www.nytco.com/>


      Subscribe

  * Subscribe
  * // Home Delivery <https://www.nytimes.com/hdleftnav>
  * // Digital Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/digitalleftnav>
  * // Crossword
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/games/lp897H9.html?campaignId=49W8Y>


  * Email Newsletters <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newsletters>
  * Alerts <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/mem/tnt.html>
  * Gift Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/giftleftnav>
  * Group Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/corporateleftnav>
  * Education Rate <https://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav>

  * Mobile Applications
    <https://www.nytimes.com/services/mobile/index.html>
  * Replica Edition
    <http://eedition.nytimes.com/cgi-bin/signup.cgi?cc=37FYY>


    Site Information Navigation

  * © 2018The New York Times Company
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html>

  * Home <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * Search <http://query.nytimes.com/search/sitesearch/#/>
  * Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com
    <mailto:accessibility@nytimes.com>. We would love to hear from you.
  * Contact Us
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/infoservdirectory.html>
  * Work With Us <http://www.nytco.com/careers>
  * Advertise <http://nytmediakit.com/>
  * Your Ad Choices
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp>
  * Privacy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Terms of Service
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html>
  * Terms of Sale
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html>


    Site Information Navigation

  * Site Map <http://spiderbites.nytimes.com/>
  * Help <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter/sitehelp.html>
  * Site Feedback <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html>
  * Subscriptions
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW>


      advertisement

Continue »

//Close this modal window


  * Africa <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/africa>
  * Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/americas>
  * Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia>
  * Australia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/australia>
  * Europe <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe>
  * Middle East <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast>

  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Elections <http://elections.nytimes.com/>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Events <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>

  * DealBook <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/dealbook/index.html>
  * Economy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/economy>
  * Energy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/energy-environment>
  * Markets <http://markets.on.nytimes.com/>
  * Media <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/media>
  * Entrepreneurship
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/smallbusiness>
  * Your Money <https://www.nytimes.com/section/your-money>
  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>

  * Op-Ed Columnists
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>

  * Personal Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology/personaltech>

  * Climate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate>
  * Space & Cosmos <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science/space>

  * Well <https://www.nytimes.com/section/well>
  * Money & Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health/policy>
  * Health Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/index.html>

  * Baseball <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/baseball>
  * Basketball: College
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaabasketball>
  * Basketball: N.B.A. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball>
  * Football: College <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaafootball>
  * Football: N.F.L. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/football>
  * Golf <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/golf>
  * Hockey <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/hockey>
  * Soccer <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/soccer>
  * Tennis <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/tennis>

  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Watching <https://www.nytimes.com/watching>

  * Best Sellers <https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/>
  * By the Book <https://www.nytimes.com/column/by-the-book>
  * The Book Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review>
  * Book Review Podcast
    <https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast>

  * Men's Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/mens-style>
  * On the Runway <https://www.nytimes.com/column/on-the-runway>
  * Weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>

  * Cooking <http://cooking.nytimes.com/>
  * Restaurant Search <https://www.nytimes.com/reviews/dining>

  * The High End <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/the-high-end>
  * Commercial <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate/commercial>
  * iPhone App
    <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/nytimesrealestate/id337316535>
  * Find A Home <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/find-a-home>
  * Mortgage Calculator
    <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/mortgage-calculator>
  * My Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/my-real-estate>
  * List Your Home <https://realestateads.nytimes.com/>

  * U.S. & Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us-politics>
  * International <https://www.nytimes.com/video/world>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/video/n-y-region>
  * Op-Docs <https://www.nytimes.com/video/op-docs>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>
  * Times Documentaries <https://www.nytimes.com/video/times-documentaries>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/video/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/video/technology>
  * Culture <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>
  * Style <https://www.nytimes.com/video/style>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/video/t-magazine>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/video/health>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/video/dining-and-wine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/video/travel>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/video/sports>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/video/real-estate>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/video/science>

  * DealBook <http://nytdealbookconference.com/>
  * ClimateTECH <http://nytclimatetech.com/>
  * Global Strategy Summit <http://nytglobalstrategy.com/>
  * International Luxury Conference <http://nytluxury.com/>
  * Luxury Travel <http://nytluxurytravel.com/>
  * New Work Summit <http://newworksummit.com/>
  * Higher Ed Leaders Forum <http://nythigheredleaders.com/>
  * Athens Democracy Forum <http://athensdemocracyforum.com/>
  * Oil & Money <http://oilandmoney.com/>
  * Art Leaders Network <http://nytartleadersnetwork.com/>

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


  * Charles M. Blow <https://www.nytimes.com/column/charles-m-blow>
  * David Brooks <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-brooks>
  * Frank Bruni <https://www.nytimes.com/column/frank-bruni>
  * Roger Cohen <https://www.nytimes.com/column/roger-cohen>
  * Gail Collins <https://www.nytimes.com/column/gail-collins>
  * Ross Douthat <https://www.nytimes.com/column/ross-douthat>
  * Maureen Dowd <https://www.nytimes.com/column/maureen-dowd>
  * Thomas L. Friedman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/thomas-l-friedman>
  * Nicholas Kristof <https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof>
  * Paul Krugman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/paul-krugman>
  * David Leonhardt <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-leonhardt>
  * Andrew Rosenthal <https://www.nytimes.com/column/andrew-rosenthal>
  * Bret Stephens <https://www.nytimes.com/column/bret-stephens>

//Close this modal window


          Edition

  * English <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * 中文 (Chinese) <http://cn.nytimes.com/>
  * Español <https://www.nytimes.com/es/>


          Help

  * FAQ <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/front.html>
  * Contact Us <http://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>


          Type Size

  * A Type size small <javascript:;>
  * A Type size medium <javascript:;>
  * A Type size large <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


  * Edit Profile <javascript:;>
  * My Account <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>
  * My Billing Information
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/get-started/manage-billing?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F11%2Fhealth%2Fgottlieb-fda-drugs.html>
  * My Saved Items <http://www.nytimes.com/saved>
  * Log Out

//Close this modal window


      Log in


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F11%2Fhealth%2Fgottlieb-fda-drugs.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Sign up


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Edit Profile


        Your profile is public. It will appear with any comments you
        leave on NYTimes.com

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Complete your registration for a free New York Times account.
        Registered users can:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Log in to:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F11%2Fhealth%2Fgottlieb-fda-drugs.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window

