//NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html>
//Sections

// Home

//Search

Skip to content <#story-header> Skip to navigation
<#site-index-navigation> View mobile version
<http://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/02/15/us/politics/epa-pollution-loophole-glider-trucks.html>



    The New York Times The New York Times <https://www.nytimes.com/>


            Politics
            <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>|How
            $225,000 Can Help Secure a Pollution Loophole at Trump’s E.P.A.

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

//Search
Subscribe Now

Log In

/257

/ //0
//Settings

//Close search


    Site Search Navigation

Search NYTimes.com
//Clear this text input

Go

https://nyti.ms/2C16utV

 1.


        Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>

     1.


            Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up
            Continues

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     2.
        //


              Man in the News


            John Bolton, an Undiplomatic Voice for American Might

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-bolton-national-security-adviser.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     3.
        //


            Trump Congratulates Putin, but Doesn’t Mention Meddling in U.S.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/us/politics/trump-putin-russia.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     4.
        //


            Saudi Prince’s White House Visit Reinforces Trump’s
            Commitment to Heir Apparent

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/us/politics/saudi-crown-prince-arrives-at-white-house-to-meet-with-trump.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     5.
     6.
        //


            Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
            Donald Trump

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     7.
        //


            Three Examples of John Bolton’s Longtime Hard-Line Views

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-bolton-national-security-adv.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     8.
        //


            How the Left and the Right Reacted to John Bolton as
            National Security Adviser

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/republicans-democrats-react-bolton.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     9.
        //


            Mattis Says Guantánamo Lawyers Were Fired Over Temperament,
            Not Legal Work

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/guantanamo-officials-fired-mattis.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    10.
        //


              News Analysis


            With Bolton, Trump Creates a Historically Hard-Line Foreign
            Policy...

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/bolton-trump-hard-liners.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    11.
        //


            John Bolton, Fresh From Fox News, Joins the Trump Cast

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/business/media/john-bolton-trump-fox-news.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    12.


            His Brother Was Shot in Chicago. He’s Marching With Students
            From Parkland.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000005806457/chicago-parkland-washington-march.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    13.
        //


            State Dept. Approves $670 Million Arms Deal With Saudi Arabia

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/us-arms-sales-saudi-arabia-.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    14.
        //


            Spending Plan Moving Through Congress Is a Rebuke to Trump.
            Here’s Why.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/trump-government-spending-bill.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    15.


            Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster to Leave the Trump White House

        <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000005814316/lt-gen-hr-mcmaster-to-leave-the-trump-white-house.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    16.
        //


            Beyond Gun Control, Student Marchers Aim to Upend Elections

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/march-for-our-lives-gun-control.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    17.
        //


            Tillerson Says Goodbye to ‘a Very Mean-Spirited Town’

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/tillerson-farewell-state-department-tweet.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    18.
        //


            Unbecoming a Trump

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    19.
        //


            House Republicans Say G.O.P. Establishment Opened Way for
            Russian Influence

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/house-intelligence-republicans-russia-collusion-trump.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    20.
        //


            ‘I Take Responsibility,’ Carson Says of $31,000 Furniture
            Purchase

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/ben-carson-hud-dining-set.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    21.
        //


            House Passes $1.3 Trillion Spending Bill; Focus Shifts to
            Senate as Clock Ticks

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/house-passes-spending-bill.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

 2.
    Loading...

See next articles

See previous articles


    Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>


    Site Navigation

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>

  * More


    Site Mobile Navigation

Advertisement

Supported by


      Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html> |
      Trump Rules


  How $225,000 Can Help Secure a Pollution Loophole at Trump’s E.P.A.

By ERIC LIPTON <https://www.nytimes.com/by/eric-lipton>FEB. 15, 2018

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1> Share This Page
Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

/257

/

Photo
//
The big rigs on Fitzgerald’s lot in Crossville, Tenn., house rebuilt
diesel engines and are exempt from rules on modern emissions controls.
Credit Kyle Dean Reinford for The New York Times

CROSSVILLE, Tenn. — The gravel parking lot at the Fitzgerald family’s
truck dealership <https://www.fitzgeraldgliderkits.com/> here in central
Tennessee was packed last week with shiny new Peterbilt and Freightliner
trucks, as well as a steady stream of buyers from across the country.

But there is something unusual about the big rigs sold by the
Fitzgeralds: They are equipped with rebuilt diesel engines that do not
need to comply with rules on modern emissions controls. That makes them
cheaper to operate, but means that they spew 40 to 55 times the
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p54/a404372>
air pollution of other new trucks, according to federal estimates,
including toxins blamed for asthma, lung cancer
<https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5352477/> and a range of
other ailments.

The special treatment for the Fitzgerald trucks is made possible by a
loophole in federal law that the Obama administration tried to close,
and the Trump administration is now championing. The trucks, originally
intended as a way to reuse a relatively new engine and other parts after
an accident, became attractive for their ability to evade modern
emissions standards and other regulations.

The survival of this loophole is a story of money, politics and
suspected academic misconduct, according to interviews and government
and private documents, and has been facilitated by Scott Pruitt, the
administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, who has staked out
positions in environmental fights that benefit the Trump
administration’s corporate backers.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

Fitzgerald welcomed President Trump at one of its dealerships
<https://www.fitzgeraldgliderkits.com/donald-trump-visits-fitzgerald-peterbilt-glade-spring-va/>
during the campaign, and it sells baseball caps
<https://www.fitzgeraldgliderkits.com/product/fitzgerald-make-trucks-great-trucker-hat/>
with the slogan “Make Trucks Great Again.”

Photo
//
Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Credit Tom Brenner/The New York Times

The loophole has been condemned in recent weeks by an array of
businesses and environmentalists: major truck makers like Volvo
<https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OAR-2014-0827-4881> and
Navistar
<https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OAR-2014-0827-4875>;
fleet owners like the United Parcel Service
<https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OAR-2014-0827-4824>;
lobbying powerhouses like the National Association of Manufacturers
<https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OAR-2014-0827-4845>;
health and environmental groups like the American Lung Association
<https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OAR-2014-0827-4846> and
the Consumer Federation of America
<https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OAR-2014-0827-4793>; and
some Fitzgerald competitors
<https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OAR-2014-0827-4809> in
Tennessee, Texas
<https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OAR-2014-0827-4853> and
Oklahoma
<https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OAR-2014-0827-4810>, Mr.
Pruitt’s home state.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-2>


    Related Coverage

  *


        Rise in E.P.A. Penalties Against Polluters Comes With an
        Asterisk FEB. 8, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/08/business/epa-penalties-polluters.html>


  *


        Under Trump, E.P.A. Has Slowed Actions Against Polluters, and
        Put Limits on Enforcement Officers DEC. 10, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/10/us/politics/pollution-epa-regulations.html>



    Trump Rules <https://www.nytimes.com/series/trump-rules-regulations>


      Articles in this series examine the reshaping of regulations under
      the Trump administration.

  *


        F.D.A. Chief Goes Against the Administration Stereotype
        FEB 11

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/11/health/gottlieb-fda-drugs.html?rref=collection%2Fseriescollection%2FTrump%20Rules>


  *


        When Picking Apples on a Farm With 5,000 Rules, Watch Out for
        the Ladders
        DEC 27

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/27/business/picking-apples-on-a-farm-with-5000-rules-watch-out-for-the-ladders.html?rref=collection%2Fseriescollection%2FTrump%20Rules>


  *


        Under Trump, E.P.A. Has Slowed Actions Against Polluters, and
        Put Limits on Enforcement Officers
        DEC 10

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/10/us/politics/pollution-epa-regulations.html?rref=collection%2Fseriescollection%2FTrump%20Rules>


  *


        How Trump’s Hands-Off Approach to Policing Is Frustrating Some
        Chiefs
        NOV 21

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/21/us/trump-justice-department-police.html?rref=collection%2Fseriescollection%2FTrump%20Rules>


  *


        Trump Wants More Big Infrastructure Projects. The Obstacles Can
        Be Big, Too.
        NOV 18

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/18/business/trump-wants-more-big-infrastructure-projects-the-obstacles-can-be-big-too.html?rref=collection%2Fseriescollection%2FTrump%20Rules>


See More » <https://www.nytimes.com/series/trump-rules-regulations>


    //Recent Comments


Bill Casey

February 16, 2018

Emission systems on new trucks use 3 different systems to reduce
emissions. Gliders bypass them all. To say they’re “just as clean” shows...


Tn Towanda

February 16, 2018

As a local resident I find this article interesting. While the topic is
interesting, the fact that both the NYT and WSJ have run articles...


Shah

February 16, 2018

Eric Lipton will go down as an American hero in my book.He's doing
everything in his power to save our democracy.I will proudly continue my...

  * See All Comments

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-3>

“This just does not make any sense to me,” said Christine Todd Whitman,
who served as head of the E.P.A. during the first George W. Bush
administration. “Everybody breathes the same air, Democrats or
Republicans. It does not matter. This is about keeping people healthy.”

But the Fitzgerald family has had influential allies. In addition to Mr.
Pruitt, they include Representative Diane Black
<https://black.house.gov/about>, a Republican who is a candidate for
Tennessee governor, and Tennessee Technological University, a state
university that produced a study minimizing pollution problems
associated with the trucks.

Ms. Black introduced legislation in 2015
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p10/a404363>
to protect the loophole when it was first in line to be eliminated by a
stricter diesel emissions rule under the Obama administration. That bill
failed, but after the election of Mr. Trump, she turned to Mr. Pruitt to
carve out an exemption to the new rule — scheduled to take effect last
month — and presented him with the study from Tennessee Tech
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p30/a404367>.

Fitzgerald had not only paid for the study
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p19/a404379>,
which has roiled the faculty at Tennessee Tech and is the subject of an
internal investigation, but it had also offered to build a new research
center
<https://www.tntech.edu/news/releases/tennessee-tech,-tcat-livingston,-fitzgerald-companies-announce-new-partnership>
for the university on land owned by the company. And in the six weeks
before Mr. Pruitt announced in November that he would grant the
exemption, Fitzgerald business entities, executives and family members
contributed at least $225,000 to Ms. Black’s campaign for governor,
campaign disclosure records
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p45/a404381>
show.

Photo
//
Representative Diane Black, a Tennessee Republican who is running for
governor, received at least $225,000 in campaign contributions from
Fitzgerald business entities, executives and family members. Credit Jim
Lo Scalzo/European Pressphoto Agency

The multiple donors allowed the company to circumvent a Tennessee state
law
<https://www.tn.gov/content/dam/tn/tref/documents/Campaign%20Finance%20Limit%20Changes%20for%202017-18.pdf>
intended to limit the size of campaign contributions by corporations and
political action committees. The donations — many of which came through
a series of limited liability companies tied to the family — represented
12 percent of the money Ms. Black had raised from outside sources
through last month, the records show.

Tommy Fitzgerald, an owner of Fitzgerald, said the actions by Ms. Black
and Mr. Pruitt were good public policy and not special favors to his
company.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-4>

“I don’t know why anyone would want to kill all these jobs,” Mr.
Fitzgerald said, referring to the several hundred people he said he
employs at his dealerships, many of them in rural areas. “It does not
make any sense.”

Chris Hartline, a spokesman for Ms. Black, said the congresswoman had
stood up for a constituent and was not influenced by the campaign
donations, which he said complied with state law. “There are very few
companies willing to try and keep manufacturing jobs in rural Tennessee
today, and Diane fights hard to support the few that do,” Mr. Hartline said.

An E.P.A. spokeswoman, Liz Bowman, said that Mr. Pruitt remained
committed to protecting clean air. But, she said, he agreed with a legal
argument made by Ms. Black and Fitzgerald that the agency did not have
the authority to limit sales.

Photo
//
Matt Moorehead at a CB Trucking garage in Cookeville, Tenn. Credit Kyle
Dean Reinford for The New York Times

“E.P.A. is acting on behalf of anyone who sees merit in upholding and
perhaps even bolstering the credibility of our laws and the role of
Congress,” Ms. Bowman said.

She said that the money donated to Ms. Black had no impact on the
decision by Mr. Pruitt.


        New Trucks, Old Engines

The trucks sold by Fitzgerald are known as “gliders” because they are
manufactured without engines and are later retrofitted with the rebuilt
ones. Gliders are popular among small trucking companies and individual
truck owners, who say they cannot afford to buy or operate vehicles with
new engines and modern emissions controls.

The trucks, which Fitzgerald claims burn less fuel per mile and are
cheaper to repair, have been on the market since at least the 1970s. But
after the federal government moved to force improvements in truck
emissions, with standards that were first enacted during the Clinton
administration
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p1/a404360>
and took full effect by 2010, gliders became a way for trucking
companies to legally skirt the rules.

Dealers like Fitzgerald buy truck bodies from Peterbilt, Freightliner
and other manufacturers and typically install 1990s-era engines,
recovered from salvage yards, that its employees rebuild down to their
cores. The used engines and other remanufactured parts allow dealers to
claim that the new trucks predate emissions requirements, and therefore
should be exempt.

Nationally, an estimated 10,000 glider trucks were sold
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p38/a404383>
in 2015 — or about 4 percent of all new heavy-duty truck sales — the
last full year for which data is available, up from fewer than 1,000 in
2010. Fitzgerald is the industry’s largest dealer in retrofitting the
trucks by selling so-called glider kit trucks, for about $130,000.
Modern trucks, which also include collision avoidance equipment, cost
between $145,000 and $170,000, dealers said.


      Document


    Money, Politics and Pollution: Inside a Trump-Era Loophole

In response to appeals from a Tennessee trucking company and a
Republican lawmaker from Tennessee, the E.P.A. administrator, Scott
Pruitt, has moved to roll back an agency rule intended to curb air
pollution from freight-hauling diesel-powered trucks. Here is a look at
the documents behind the debate.

// OPEN Document
<https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/02/15/us/politics/15reg-doc.html>

“I hate government mandates,” said Paul Bailey, a state senator and the
operations manager at CB Trucking in Cookeville, Tenn
<http://cb-trucking.com/>., which hauls everything from building
supplies to mustard in its fleet of 60 glider trucks, two-thirds of
which were purchased from Fitzgerald.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-5>

The glider trucks take advantage of other regulatory loopholes. Since
most of the engines were manufactured before 1999, the trucks are exempt
from a federal law
<https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/faq/what-mandate-map-21-act-eld-rule> that
went into effect in December
<https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/hours-service/elds/implementation-timeline>
intended to prevent accidents caused by fatigued drivers. The law
requires commercial truck drivers to use an electronic logging system to
track how many hours they spend behind the wheel, and to take mandatory
breaks. The law covers truck engines manufactured after 1999
<https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/faq/if-vehicle-registration-commercial-motor-vehicle-reflects-model-year-2000-or-newer-b-0>.

The glider trucks, in some cases, also are not subject to a 12 percent
federal excise tax <https://www.irs.gov/irb/2017-06_IRB#NOT-2017-5>
imposed on truck sales, because they are not considered new trucks. Ms.
Black intervened with the Internal Revenue Service
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p17/a404365>
last year, along with three other members of Congress, to protect that
tax break.

A Fitzgerald salesman boasted last week that all 150 trucks on the
company’s Crossville lot had been sold as trucking companies rushed to
avoid the Obama-era emissions standards and the electronic tracking rule.

“We cannot build them quick enough,” said the salesman, Cody Poston. A
second Fitzgerald salesman said the company had pending customer orders
for 300 more and had about 2,000 glider trucks on the way to his sales lot.

Photo
//
Representative Black visiting a Fitzgerald warehouse in 2015, the year
she introduced legislation to protect a loophole that benefits the dealer.

Matt Moorehead, who helps maintain trucks at the CB Trucking garage in
Cookeville, said glider trucks allow small companies and individual
drivers to compete with big trucking companies.

He said the trucks are easier to repair and, by some accounts, burn less
diesel fuel per mile. And by avoiding the electronic tracking system,
drivers can continue to use paper logs, which can be more easily
manipulated to allow flexibility in driving and rest times.

“When you got a load of eggs and milk to deliver, these rules can force
you to stop driving when you are just a few miles short of your
destination,” he said of the electronic tracking.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-6>

After E.P.A. officials, during the Obama administration, saw a surge in
the number of glider trucks being sold, the agency moved to prohibit any
company from manufacturing more than 300 of them per year, effectively
killing the industry that had emerged to help sidestep the rules.
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p5/a404362>

Fitzgerald, with Ms. Black’s help, submitted a petition
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p22/a404366>
in July asking Mr. Pruitt to suspend the cap and declare that all
gliders made by Fitzgerald and at least two other dealers — Iowa-based
Harrison Truck Centers and Indiana Phoenix of Avilla, Ind. — be exempted
because the new emissions requirements applied only to “new motor
vehicle engines.”

Photo
//
Terry Dotson, president of Worldwide Equipment Enterprises, a chain of
dealerships that sells trucks with modern emissions systems. Credit Kyle
Dean Reinford for The New York Times

To bolster their argument, Fitzgerald submitted the study conducted by
Tennessee Tech
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p29/a404367>
in late 2016. The study, which Mr. Pruitt cited in the E.P.A.’s November
announcement
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p46/a404371>
of the rollback, concluded that emissions from the company’s trucks were
as clean as those with modern systems.

The push by Fitzgerald had started by May, according to a calendar of
Mr. Pruitt’s visitors
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p21/a404380>,
when Mr. Pruitt and his chief of staff met with executives from
Fitzgerald and Donald Shandy
<http://attorneysuscrowedunlevy.com/AttorneysDetail.aspx?id=198>, an
Oklahoma lawyer who knows Mr. Pruitt from his tenure as Oklahoma’s
attorney general.

By September, to keep the momentum going, Fitzgerald had hired its first
full-time federal lobbyist
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p42/a404370>
— a former aide to Ms. Black
<http://congressional-staff.insidegov.com/l/46595/Jonathan-M-Toomey>.


        ‘Super-Polluting Trucks’

Terry Dotson, president of Worldwide Equipment Enterprises, a
Kentucky-based chain of truck dealerships that sells vehicles with
modern emissions controls, said he remembered going into repair garages
years ago when it was hard to breathe because of soot.

Mr. Dotson says he voted for President Trump and is a strong backer of
the coal industry, which relies on his trucks for mining operations. But
he does not agree with the administration’s carve-out for glider trucks.

Photo
//
A label on a Fitzgerald rig explains the provision granting the truck an
exemption from modern emissions controls. Credit Kyle Dean Reinford for
The New York Times

“I want Mr. Fitzgerald to make a fortune and be a happy man,” Mr. Dotson
said outside one of his Knoxville, Tenn., dealerships. “But everybody
ought to play by the same set of rules.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-7>

Truck manufacturers, as well as shipping companies like UPS, fear that a
permanent loophole would encourage other truck dealers to enter the
glider business, further undermining efforts to reduce health hazards
associated with diesel exhaust and creating unfair competition for them.
The National Association of Clean Air Agencies
<https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OAR-2014-0827-4816>,
representing state regulators, and the attorneys general from 1
<http://www.marylandattorneygeneral.gov/news%20documents/Glider_Regs.pdf>2
<http://www.marylandattorneygeneral.gov/news%20documents/Glider_Regs.pdf>states
have joined in protesting the rollback
<http://www.marylandattorneygeneral.gov/news%20documents/Glider_Regs.pdf>.

Chet France, former director of assessment and standards at the E.P.A.
Office of Transportation and Air Quality, says there are enough truck
engines in salvage yards to support the glider market for decades.

“We are talking about super-polluting trucks that are going to put the
health of thousands of people at risk,” said Mr. France, who worked at
the E.P.A. for 30 years under Democratic and Republican administrations
and is a consultant to the Environmental Defense Fund. “And for what?”

The E.P.A. estimates that over the life of every 10,000 trucks without
modern emissions systems, up to 1,600 Americans
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p14/a404364>would
die prematurely
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p14/a404364>,
and thousands more would suffer a variety of ailments including
bronchitis and heart attacks, particularly in cities with air pollution
associated with diesel-powered trains, ships and power plants.

Photo
//
An industrial park in Sparta, Tenn., where the Fitzgeralds intend to
build a research center for Tennessee Tech University. Credit Kyle Dean
Reinford for The New York Times

The health threats are caused by nitrogen oxide and tiny particles of
dust and soot that create haze in the air.

In November, just days after Mr. Pruitt said he would eliminate the
glider cap, staff members at the E.P.A. submitted an analysis to the
agency’s rule-making docket
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p55/a404372>
that contradicted the conclusions from Fitzgerald and Tennessee Tech
that glider trucks created no more pollution than trucks with updated
emissions systems.

The analysis said E.P.A. tests found that the Fitzgerald trucks emitted
nitrogen oxide levels during highway operations that were 43 times as
high as those from trucks with modern emissions control systems. The air
pollution from these glider trucks was so bad that one year’s worth of
truck sales was estimated to release 13 times as much nitrogen oxide
<https://www.theicct.org/blog/staff/glider-proposal-means-resurrecting-dirty-diesel>
as all of the Volkswagen diesel cars with fraudulent emissions controls,
a scheme that resulted in a criminal case against the company and more
than $4 billion in fines.

When testing the glider trucks in stop-and-go traffic, the E.P.A. report
said, the testing equipment shut down because of the extreme level of
particulates.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-8>

“The filters were overloaded with particulate matter,” said the report
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p54/a404372>,
which included a photograph of the white filter that had turned pitch black.

Photo
//
President Trump at a meeting at Fitzgerald Peterbilt in August 2016.

In recent weeks, other questions have been raised about the accuracy of
the Tennessee Tech study, the role engineering experts at the university
played in it, and the relationship between Fitzgerald and the university.

The signature of Tennessee Tech’s president, Philip B. Oldham
<https://www.tntech.edu/president/about-the-president>, appeared on the
study, which was included in the petition Fitzgerald submitted in July
to eliminate the cap. In April, Mr. Oldham was photographed with Mr.
Fitzgerald <https://twitter.com/TTUPrezPhil/status/855887493182377984>
at the Bristol Motor Speedway in Tennessee, where Fitzgerald sponsors
the Fitzgerald Glider Kits 300, a Nascar Xfinity Series stock car race.
Mr. Oldham presided over an event at the university in August, where
Fitzgerald announced it would build a new academic research center
<https://www.tntech.edu/news/releases/tennessee-tech,-tcat-livingston,-fitzgerald-companies-announce-new-partnership>
for the university.

Some faculty members say the university appears to have been used by
Fitzgerald as part of its lobbying campaign.

“Our reputation has recently been damaged because of a study funded by
Fitzgerald Glider Kits and used to influence federal policy,” said a
faculty senate resolution passed late last month
<https://www.tntech.edu/assets/usermedia/facultysenate/minutes-and-notes-2017-2018/Resolution_on_Fitzgerald_Study_1-30-2018.pdf>.
Christy Killman, president of the faculty senate, said the results of
the study “raised a red flag.”

Mr. Oldham did not respond to a request for comment, but he sent a
letter to Ms. Killman this month confirming that a “misconduct in
research
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4378485-Combatting-Pollution-in-Diesel-Trucks-and-the.html#document/p198/a404384>”
investigation had been started, at the faculty’s request, adding that he
wanted to ensure the university’s reputation as an “honest broker of
knowledge.”

The public comment period on Mr. Pruitt’s intention to repeal the annual
cap on glider trucks has passed. Ms. Bowman, the E.P.A. spokeswoman,
says the agency is now reviewing the comments before Mr. Pruitt
announces a final decision.

“Continuing to improve air quality is a stated priority of Administrator
Pruitt’s,” Ms. Bowman said. “Any comments received that raise concerns
with the ability to maintain that goal are closely considered and analyzed.”

/Write A Comment

/

At Fitzgerald’s sales lot, employees said last week that there was no
need to worry about pollution from the trucks, adding that they had
emissions test results to prove it.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-9>

“They are just as clean,” Mr. Poston said of the gliders, compared with
modern trucks, “if not cleaner.”

Hiroko Tabuchi contributed reporting from New York

A version of this article appears in print on February 15, 2018, on Page
A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Steering Big Rigs Around
Emissions Standards. Order Reprints <http://www.nytreprints.com/>|
Today's Paper
<http://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>|Subscribe
<http://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp839RF.html?campaignId=48JQY>


Continue reading the main story <#whats-next>

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. *Tell us what you think.*

<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfLW30xgZodF1qRAg80oWEGuDpW-1HHaL0g42G3SmvB2f4lCw/viewform?entry.8537735=https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/15/us/politics/epa-pollution-loophole-glider-trucks.html>



  *
  *
  *
  *

//Close this panel


    //257 Comments

Readers shared their thoughts on this article.

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to letters@nytimes.com <mailto:letters@nytimes.com>.

  * All 257
  * Readers’ Picks 221
  * NYT Picks 5

newest
//
/NYT Pick

/


Barbara Moschner

San Antonio, TX February 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/15/us/politics/epa-pollution-loophole-glider-trucks.html#permid=25975704>


Congresswoman Black is a nurse. How sad is that when the level of asthma
sufferers will increase across TN and the US because of her push to
avoid closing the loopholes in the regulations.
I hope she has a Democratic opponent who can bring this to light.
Thanks to NYT for this very important article that highlights how money
can hurt a college's reputation, a congresswoman's reputation, and the
current EPA's decline in our country's focus on health and welfare.

  * //Flag
  * //363Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Paul Ruscher

Oregon February 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/15/us/politics/epa-pollution-loophole-glider-trucks.html#permid=25976914>


This story is so important and so emblematic of the role-reversal at EPA
under Pruitt and Trump. It highlights political corruption via
pay-for-play. It illustrates the lack of regard for science and public
health that is a hallmark of this administration. This scientist and
asthma sufferer is also tired of defending his decision to be vocal
about the rollback of regulations on clean water, air, and lands, and
charges that scientists that do so lose their objectivity. Rather, those
who ignore the science and augment pollution are the ones who should be
called out. I appreciate Mr. Lipton bringing this issue back into the
public sphere, as he did last fall when the announcement was first made.

  * //Flag
  * //222Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Ken L

Atlanta February 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/15/us/politics/epa-pollution-loophole-glider-trucks.html#permid=25976391>


Donocracy in action. Donors call the shots. The rest of us have to
breathe the fumes left behind. Sickening.

  * //Flag
  * //170Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


L Bodiford

Alabama February 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/15/us/politics/epa-pollution-loophole-glider-trucks.html#permid=25976291>


Trump and Pruitt: Making America Cough Again.

  * //Flag
  * //296Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


b fagan

chicago February 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/15/us/politics/epa-pollution-loophole-glider-trucks.html#permid=25979544>


"I don't know why anyone would want to kill all these jobs," Mr.
Fitzgerald said.
We know why people don't mind killing other people with pollution. It's
profitable, right? Mr. Fitzgerald and Mr. Pruitt should each have one of
these engines running in their office when they're at work. This is the
same kind of pay-to-pollute that the coal plants were getting away with
a decade or two ago - evade regulation by claiming that major expansions
of a plant weren't "new" generation, just upgrades grandfathered in.

Make trucks great again? Make them electric. Diesel kills - especially
in older equipment.

  * //Flag
  * //161Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

Loading...
Read More //

View all 257 comments


    //257 Comments

Readers shared their thoughts on this article.

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to letters@nytimes.com <mailto:letters@nytimes.com>.

  * All 257
  * Readers’ Picks 221
  * NYT Picks 5

newest
//


    Related Coverage

 1.


        Rise in E.P.A. Penalties Against Polluters Comes With an
        Asterisk FEB. 8, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/08/business/epa-penalties-polluters.html>


 2.


        Under Trump, E.P.A. Has Slowed Actions Against Polluters, and
        Put Limits on Enforcement Officers DEC. 10, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/10/us/politics/pollution-epa-regulations.html>



    Trending

 1.


        Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html>

 2.


        Why He Kayaked Across the Atlantic at 70 (for the Third Time)

    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/03/22/magazine/voyages-kayaking-across-ocean-at-70.html>

 3.


        Trump’s Lawyer Resigns as President Adopts Aggressive Approach
        in Russia Inquiry

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-dowd-resigns-trump-lawyer.html>

 4.


        Unbecoming a Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html>
 5.


        Matter: Was a Tiny Mummy in the Atacama an Alien? No, but the
        Real Story Is Almost...

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/science/ata-mummy-alien-chile.html>
 6.


        Video Shows Las Vegas Gunman Gambling, Eating Alone and Filling
        His Suite With Guns

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/las-vegas-shooting-stephen-paddock.html>

 7.


        Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
        Donald Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html>

 8.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Cynthia Nixon and the Degradation of Experience

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/cynthia-nixon-experience-governor-ny.html>

 9.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Speaking as a White Male …

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/speaking-as-a-white-male.html>

10.


        How the Las Vegas Gunman Planned a Massacre, in 7 Days of Video

    <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/100000005794914/las-vegas-gunman-planned-massacre.html>


View More Trending Stories » <https://www.nytimes.com/trending>


    What's Next

Loading...

//Close this overlay


Go to previous
Go to next

Loading...

Go to Home Page » <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index The New York Times The New York Times
    <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index Navigation


      News

  * World <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


      Opinion

  * Today's Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html>
  * Op-Ed Columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>
  * Video: Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>


      Arts

  * Today's Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Books <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Video: Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>


      Living

  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>
  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Weddings & Celebrations
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>


      Listings & More

  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP>

  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage My Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * NYTCo <http://www.nytco.com/>


      Subscribe

  * Subscribe
  * // Home Delivery <https://www.nytimes.com/hdleftnav>
  * // Digital Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/digitalleftnav>
  * // Crossword
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/games/lp897H9.html?campaignId=49W8Y>


  * Email Newsletters <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newsletters>
  * Alerts <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/mem/tnt.html>
  * Gift Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/giftleftnav>
  * Group Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/corporateleftnav>
  * Education Rate <https://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav>

  * Mobile Applications
    <https://www.nytimes.com/services/mobile/index.html>
  * Replica Edition
    <http://eedition.nytimes.com/cgi-bin/signup.cgi?cc=37FYY>


    Site Information Navigation

  * © 2018The New York Times Company
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html>

  * Home <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * Search <http://query.nytimes.com/search/sitesearch/#/>
  * Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com
    <mailto:accessibility@nytimes.com>. We would love to hear from you.
  * Contact Us
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/infoservdirectory.html>
  * Work With Us <http://www.nytco.com/careers>
  * Advertise <http://nytmediakit.com/>
  * Your Ad Choices
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp>
  * Privacy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Terms of Service
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html>
  * Terms of Sale
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html>


    Site Information Navigation

  * Site Map <http://spiderbites.nytimes.com/>
  * Help <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter/sitehelp.html>
  * Site Feedback <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html>
  * Subscriptions
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW>


Go to the previous story


    Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

Go to the next story
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>



  * Africa <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/africa>
  * Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/americas>
  * Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia>
  * Australia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/australia>
  * Europe <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe>
  * Middle East <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast>

  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Elections <http://elections.nytimes.com/>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Events <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>

  * DealBook <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/dealbook/index.html>
  * Economy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/economy>
  * Energy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/energy-environment>
  * Markets <http://markets.on.nytimes.com/>
  * Media <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/media>
  * Entrepreneurship
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/smallbusiness>
  * Your Money <https://www.nytimes.com/section/your-money>
  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>

  * Op-Ed Columnists
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>

  * Personal Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology/personaltech>

  * Climate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate>
  * Space & Cosmos <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science/space>

  * Well <https://www.nytimes.com/section/well>
  * Money & Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health/policy>
  * Health Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/index.html>

  * Baseball <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/baseball>
  * Basketball: College
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaabasketball>
  * Basketball: N.B.A. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball>
  * Football: College <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaafootball>
  * Football: N.F.L. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/football>
  * Golf <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/golf>
  * Hockey <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/hockey>
  * Soccer <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/soccer>
  * Tennis <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/tennis>

  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Watching <https://www.nytimes.com/watching>

  * Best Sellers <https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/>
  * By the Book <https://www.nytimes.com/column/by-the-book>
  * The Book Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review>
  * Book Review Podcast
    <https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast>

  * Men's Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/mens-style>
  * On the Runway <https://www.nytimes.com/column/on-the-runway>
  * Weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>

  * Cooking <http://cooking.nytimes.com/>
  * Restaurant Search <https://www.nytimes.com/reviews/dining>

  * The High End <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/the-high-end>
  * Commercial <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate/commercial>
  * iPhone App
    <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/nytimesrealestate/id337316535>
  * Find A Home <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/find-a-home>
  * Mortgage Calculator
    <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/mortgage-calculator>
  * My Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/my-real-estate>
  * List Your Home <https://realestateads.nytimes.com/>

  * U.S. & Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us-politics>
  * International <https://www.nytimes.com/video/world>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/video/n-y-region>
  * Op-Docs <https://www.nytimes.com/video/op-docs>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>
  * Times Documentaries <https://www.nytimes.com/video/times-documentaries>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/video/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/video/technology>
  * Culture <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>
  * Style <https://www.nytimes.com/video/style>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/video/t-magazine>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/video/health>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/video/dining-and-wine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/video/travel>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/video/sports>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/video/real-estate>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/video/science>

  * DealBook <http://nytdealbookconference.com/>
  * ClimateTECH <http://nytclimatetech.com/>
  * Global Strategy Summit <http://nytglobalstrategy.com/>
  * International Luxury Conference <http://nytluxury.com/>
  * Luxury Travel <http://nytluxurytravel.com/>
  * New Work Summit <http://newworksummit.com/>
  * Higher Ed Leaders Forum <http://nythigheredleaders.com/>
  * Athens Democracy Forum <http://athensdemocracyforum.com/>
  * Oil & Money <http://oilandmoney.com/>
  * Art Leaders Network <http://nytartleadersnetwork.com/>

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


  * Charles M. Blow <https://www.nytimes.com/column/charles-m-blow>
  * David Brooks <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-brooks>
  * Frank Bruni <https://www.nytimes.com/column/frank-bruni>
  * Roger Cohen <https://www.nytimes.com/column/roger-cohen>
  * Gail Collins <https://www.nytimes.com/column/gail-collins>
  * Ross Douthat <https://www.nytimes.com/column/ross-douthat>
  * Maureen Dowd <https://www.nytimes.com/column/maureen-dowd>
  * Thomas L. Friedman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/thomas-l-friedman>
  * Nicholas Kristof <https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof>
  * Paul Krugman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/paul-krugman>
  * David Leonhardt <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-leonhardt>
  * Andrew Rosenthal <https://www.nytimes.com/column/andrew-rosenthal>
  * Bret Stephens <https://www.nytimes.com/column/bret-stephens>

//Close this modal window


Verified Commenters
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/usercontent/verified/verified-commenters.html>
can leave comments on NYTimes.com without initial moderation. Verified
status is earned based on a history of quality comments.
//Close this modal window


          Edition

  * English <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * 中文 (Chinese) <http://cn.nytimes.com/>
  * Español <https://www.nytimes.com/es/>


          Help

  * FAQ <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/front.html>
  * Contact Us <http://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>


          Type Size

  * A Type size small <javascript:;>
  * A Type size medium <javascript:;>
  * A Type size large <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


  * Edit Profile <javascript:;>
  * My Account <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>
  * My Billing Information
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/get-started/manage-billing?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F15%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Fepa-pollution-loophole-glider-trucks.html>
  * My Saved Items <http://www.nytimes.com/saved>
  * Log Out

//Close this modal window


      Log in


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F15%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Fepa-pollution-loophole-glider-trucks.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Sign up


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Edit Profile


        Your profile is public. It will appear with any comments you
        leave on NYTimes.com

//Close this modal window

