//NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html>
//Sections

// Home

//Search

Skip to content <#story-header> Skip to navigation
<#site-index-navigation> View mobile version
<http://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html>



    The New York Times The New York Times <https://www.nytimes.com/>


            Politics
            <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>|Michael
            D. Cohen, Trump’s Longtime Lawyer, Says He Paid Stormy
            Daniels Out of His Own Pocket

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

//Search
Subscribe Now Log In
/1399

/ //0 //Settings
//Close search


    Site Search Navigation

Search NYTimes.com
//Clear this text input

Go

https://nyti.ms/2BYQc51

 1.


        Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>

     1.


            Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up
            Continues

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     2.
        //


              Man in the News


            John Bolton, an Undiplomatic Voice for American Might

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-bolton-national-security-adviser.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     3.
        //


            Trump Congratulates Putin, but Doesn’t Mention Meddling in U.S.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/us/politics/trump-putin-russia.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     4.
        //


            Saudi Prince’s White House Visit Reinforces Trump’s
            Commitment to Heir Apparent

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/us/politics/saudi-crown-prince-arrives-at-white-house-to-meet-with-trump.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     5.
     6.
        //


            Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
            Donald Trump

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     7.
        //


            Three Examples of John Bolton’s Longtime Hard-Line Views

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-bolton-national-security-adv.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     8.
        //


            How the Left and the Right Reacted to John Bolton as
            National Security Adviser

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/republicans-democrats-react-bolton.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     9.
        //


            Mattis Says Guantánamo Lawyers Were Fired Over Temperament,
            Not Legal Work

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/guantanamo-officials-fired-mattis.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    10.
        //


              News Analysis


            With Bolton, Trump Creates a Historically Hard-Line Foreign
            Policy...

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/bolton-trump-hard-liners.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    11.
        //


            John Bolton, Fresh From Fox News, Joins the Trump Cast

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/business/media/john-bolton-trump-fox-news.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    12.


            His Brother Was Shot in Chicago. He’s Marching With Students
            From Parkland.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000005806457/chicago-parkland-washington-march.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    13.
        //


            State Dept. Approves $670 Million Arms Deal With Saudi Arabia

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/us-arms-sales-saudi-arabia-.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    14.
        //


            Spending Plan Moving Through Congress Is a Rebuke to Trump.
            Here’s Why.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/trump-government-spending-bill.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    15.


            Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster to Leave the Trump White House

        <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000005814316/lt-gen-hr-mcmaster-to-leave-the-trump-white-house.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    16.
        //


            Beyond Gun Control, Student Marchers Aim to Upend Elections

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/march-for-our-lives-gun-control.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    17.
        //


            Tillerson Says Goodbye to ‘a Very Mean-Spirited Town’

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/tillerson-farewell-state-department-tweet.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    18.
        //


            Unbecoming a Trump

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    19.
        //


            House Republicans Say G.O.P. Establishment Opened Way for
            Russian Influence

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/house-intelligence-republicans-russia-collusion-trump.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    20.
        //


            ‘I Take Responsibility,’ Carson Says of $31,000 Furniture
            Purchase

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/ben-carson-hud-dining-set.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    21.
        //


            House Passes $1.3 Trillion Spending Bill; Focus Shifts to
            Senate as Clock Ticks

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/house-passes-spending-bill.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

 2.
    Loading...

See next articles

See previous articles


    Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>


    Site Navigation

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>

  * More


    Site Mobile Navigation

Advertisement

Supported by


      Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>


  Michael D. Cohen, Trump’s Longtime Lawyer, Says He Paid Stormy Daniels
  Out of His Own Pocket

By MAGGIE HABERMAN <https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman>FEB. 13,
2018

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1> Share This Page
Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

/1399

/

Photo
//
Michael D. Cohen, a longtime personal lawyer for President Trump, in
September in Washington. Credit Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated Press

Michael D. Cohen, President Trump’s longtime personal lawyer, said on
Tuesday that he had paid $130,000 out of his own pocket to a
pornographic-film actress who had once claimed to have had an affair
with Mr. Trump.

In the most detailed explanation of the 2016 payment made to the actress
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/12/us/trump-stephanie-clifford-stormy-daniels.html>,
Stephanie Clifford, Mr. Cohen, who worked as a counsel to the Trump
Organization for more than a decade, said he was not reimbursed by the
Trump Organization or the campaign for the payment.

“Neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to
the transaction with Ms. Clifford, and neither reimbursed me for the
payment, either directly or indirectly,” Mr. Cohen said in a statement
to The New York Times. “The payment to Ms. Clifford was lawful, and was
not a campaign contribution or a campaign expenditure by anyone.”

He declined to answer several follow-up questions, including whether Mr.
Trump had been aware that Mr. Cohen made the payment, why he made the
payment or whether he had made similar payments to other people over the
years.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

Mr. Cohen has previously said that Mr. Trump has denied an affair with
Ms. Clifford, whose stage name is Stormy Daniels. She has said the
affair took place soon after Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, gave birth to
the couple’s son, Barron.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-2>


    Related Coverage

  *


        More Details Emerge About Trump’s Relationship With Porn Star
        JAN. 17, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/17/us/politics/stormy-daniels-trump.html>


  *


        Porn Star Was Reportedly Paid to Stay Quiet About Trump JAN. 12,
        2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/12/us/trump-stephanie-clifford-stormy-daniels.html>


  *


        Trump Foot Soldier Sidelined Under Glare of Russia Inquiry JULY
        2, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/02/us/politics/michael-cohen-donald-trump.html>



    //Recent Comments


Colin McKerlie

February 15, 2018

Every day Donald Trump is engaged in criminal conspiracies.Every day
Donald Trump is engaged in treasonous intrigues with foreign agents.The...


canislupis

February 14, 2018

This entire "episode" was to be "non-disclosed" by both parties
according to the NDA. If Cohen is now admitting he made a $130,000
payment...


Kathy

February 14, 2018

There is paperwork that Cohen formed a separate company to pay her. I
think he's trying to cover up using campaign funds as payout, which is...

  * See All Comments

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-3>

Mr. Cohen’s statement about what he called “a private transaction” was
the first time that he had acknowledged a role in the payment, which was
first reported in January by The Wall Street Journal
<https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-lawyer-arranged-130-000-payment-for-adult-film-stars-silence-1515787678>.

Mr. Cohen said that he had given a similar statement to the Federal
Election Commission in response to a complaint filed by the government
watchdog group Common Cause, which contended that the payment, made
through a limited liability company that Mr. Cohen established, was an
in-kind contribution to the Trump campaign.

Photo
//
Stephanie Clifford, known as Stormy Daniels. She once claimed to have
had an affair with Donald J. Trump. Credit Ethan Miller/Getty Images

Officials with Common Cause also sought to determine whether the payment
was made by the Trump Organization or another person.

“The complaint alleges that I somehow violated campaign finance laws by
facilitating an excess, in-kind contribution,” Mr. Cohen said in his
statement. “The allegations in the complaint are factually unsupported
and without legal merit, and my counsel has submitted a response to the
F.E.C.”

He said he would not make any additional comments about the commission
complaint “or regarding Ms. Clifford.”


    Newsletter Sign Up

Continue reading the main story <#continues-post-newsletter>


      Morning Briefing

Get what you need to know to start your day in the United States, Canada
and the Americas, delivered to your inbox.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.

Invalid email address. Please re-enter.

You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up

You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services.


Thank you for subscribing.


An error has occurred. Please try again later.


You are already subscribed to this email.

View all New York Times newsletters. <https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters>

  * See Sample
    <http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/sample/morning-briefing?pgtype=subscriptionspage&version=new&contentId=NN&eventName=sample&module=newsletter-sign-up>
  * Privacy Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Opt out or contact us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime

Mr. Cohen was among Mr. Trump’s fiercest defenders during his time at
the Trump Organization, often telling reporters during the 2016
presidential campaign that even false information about Mr. Trump could
be damaging if printed. Ms. Clifford had told her story to the magazine
In Touch in 2011
<http://www.intouchweekly.com/posts/stormy-daniels-affair-donald-trump-151571>,
as well as the gossip website TheDirty.com. Both accounts were published
last month after the report of the 2016 payment.

In fall 2016, Ms. Clifford was once again in discussions with news
outlets, this time more mainstream. The payment from Mr. Cohen
reportedly came a few weeks before Election Day — around the same time
as the release of the “Access Hollywood” tape
<https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/08/us/politics/donald-trump-women.html?_r=0>
that showed Mr. Trump boasting about grabbing women’s genitals without
their consent.

Ms. Clifford has not publicly denied
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/31/arts/television/stormy-daniels-jimmy-kimmel-denial.html>
an affair with Mr. Trump. A statement released by Mr. Cohen in her name
in January denied an affair, but in interviews, she has refused to
directly answer questions about it.

/Write A Comment

/

She is one of at least two women who claimed to have had affairs with
Mr. Trump but who were kept silent through legal agreements. The other
is Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model. Ms. McDougal sold her story
to the company that owns The National Enquirer, but it was not printed,
The Journal reported
<https://www.wsj.com/articles/national-enquirer-shielded-donald-trump-from-playboy-models-affair-allegation-1478309380>
in 2016.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-4>

Hope Hicks, now the White House communications director, said at the
time that the report of an affair was “totally untrue” and that the
Trump campaign had “no knowledge” of any payment to Ms. McDougal.

Maggie Astor contributed reporting.

A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page
A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump’s Longtime Lawyer
Says He Paid Actress Out of His Own Pocket. Order Reprints
<http://www.nytreprints.com/>| Today's Paper
<http://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>|Subscribe
<http://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp839RF.html?campaignId=48JQY>


Continue reading the main story <#whats-next>

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. *Tell us what you think.*

<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfLW30xgZodF1qRAg80oWEGuDpW-1HHaL0g42G3SmvB2f4lCw/viewform?entry.8537735=https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html>



  *
  *
  *
  *

//Close this panel


    //1399 Comments

Readers shared their thoughts on this article.

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to letters@nytimes.com <mailto:letters@nytimes.com>.

  * All 1399
  * Readers’ Picks 962
  * NYT Picks 12

newest
//
/NYT Pick

/


dre

NYC February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25956684>


No one pays $130k cash to someone for no reason. The corruption and lies
of trump, his admin, and associated lawyers and toads is endless.

If the hush money payment was in effect on behalf of trump it is legally
the same as from him. Add it and his denials to the list of impeachable
offenses.

  * //Flag
  * //1790Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


James

Fort Myers, FL February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25956320>


Terrible reporting when Haberman says that Cohen was "not reimbursed for
the payment." That's an inference Haberman makes that reflects a sloppy
reading of a lawyer's crafted statement.

Cohen specifically said he was "not reimbursed by the Trump Organization
or the Trump campaign." That does not mean he wasn't reimbursed by some
other entity, or by a specific individual, say Donald J. Trump or Donald
Trump, Jr., or Jared Kushner or a Russian agent. He fronted the money is
all he is saying and that these two entities did not reimburse him, and
he is still hiding important information.

  * //Flag
  * //2405Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Kevin Donegan

Portland, Oregon February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25957078>


I bet anything after Cohen made the $130K payment, his billable hours
went up to cover the $130K hush money. No attorney gives their client
$130K. isn't there some ethical code violated here? For Cohen taking the
fall he should be investigated and be disbarred. The $130K payment will
cost him his career and millions of $$.

  * //Flag
  * //1427Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Mjxs

Springfield, VA February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25956393>


So. Cohen paid out of his own pocket. But who put the money is his
pocket in the first place?

  * //Flag
  * //1130Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


SMB

Savannah February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25957474>


What a racket Trump is running. If you want to be the billionaire's
friend, you have to pay off his porn star girlfriend. It's not like he
could afford it himself. Bannon told Wolff that something like 100 women
had been paid off. If only the Trump walls could talk, Russian compromat
perhaps on his interactions with prostitutes, and always always the flow
of money. Trump personifies most of the vices himself, and his
evangelist followers turn blind eyes to everything.

Let's get back to the taxes. Would they also hide some of his payoffs?
It would be interesting to see what he would call hush money.

  * //Flag
  * //791Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Kona030

HNL February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25959154>


A scandal like this would have almost certainly been fatal to any past
political figure, be it a presidential, senate, House, or governor race....

And this scandal doesn't even break the top 10 for this administration...

  * //Flag
  * //856Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Mike

NYC February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25958507>


If he thought that he was buying the porn star's silence he didn't get
his money's worth.

  * //Flag
  * //354Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Alex Brown

CA February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25958888>


'Family Values' party, cough cough.

  * //Flag
  * //645Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


rocketship

new york city February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25957476:25958075>


Hey John, there is nothing illegal about someone in this case, paying
off someone. He decided to do it. That's fine. If his billable hours go
up and the client in this case Trump says great, then its no problem
too. Let's not look under too many rocks and keep focused on the big
item which is our safety and welfare as Americans

  * //Flag
  * In Reply to John
  * //21Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Tom

Philadelpia February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25959483>


Let's get one thing straight: the key to this story is not who paid whom
but rather why the payment was made in the first place.

  * //Flag
  * //441Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Traveler....

Vermont February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25959716>


Trump's lawyer, Michael Cohen, claims it was HE who paid the $130,000 to
porn star Stormy Daniels in October 2016 to keep her quiet about DT's
assignation with her. OK, did Michael Cohen file the required Federal
gift tax return? While Cohen claims he forked over the $130,000 as part
of a settlement agreement with Stormy Daniels/Stephanie Clifford,
Cohen's payment was either a gift to Trump or a gift to Stormy Daniels
because Cohen himself had no need of a settlement with Stormy Daniels.
Cohen says he wasn't reimbursed by Trump or the Trump organization or
the Trump campaign - making his payment a gift.

If Michael Cohen didn't file a Federal gift tax return (required for any
gift over $10,000), then Cohen broke the law. Hope people ask for
confirmation that this happened.

  * //Flag
  * //700Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Michael

Rhode Island February 14, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html#permid=25961311>


This speaks to the type of people governing this country: disingenuous,
ethical nihilists mascarading as Republicans. There is no sense of
morality, duty, and integrity, which translates to the types of policies
emanating from this administration: banal, brutal, regressive, and
damaging. This isn’t about $130k paid to a porn star. It’s a look into
the rarified, post-truth world of Donald J Trump, a world filled with
lies, corruption, and greed.

  * //Flag
  * //376Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

Loading...
Read More //

View all 1399 comments


    //1399 Comments

Readers shared their thoughts on this article.

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to letters@nytimes.com <mailto:letters@nytimes.com>.

  * All 1399
  * Readers’ Picks 962
  * NYT Picks 12

newest
//


    Related Coverage

 1.


        More Details Emerge About Trump’s Relationship With Porn Star
        JAN. 17, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/17/us/politics/stormy-daniels-trump.html>


 2.


        Porn Star Was Reportedly Paid to Stay Quiet About Trump JAN. 12,
        2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/12/us/trump-stephanie-clifford-stormy-daniels.html>


 3.


        Trump Foot Soldier Sidelined Under Glare of Russia Inquiry JULY
        2, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/02/us/politics/michael-cohen-donald-trump.html>



    Trending

 1.


        Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html>

 2.


        Why He Kayaked Across the Atlantic at 70 (for the Third Time)

    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/03/22/magazine/voyages-kayaking-across-ocean-at-70.html>

 3.


        Trump’s Lawyer Resigns as President Adopts Aggressive Approach
        in Russia Inquiry

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-dowd-resigns-trump-lawyer.html>

 4.


        Unbecoming a Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html>
 5.


        Matter: Was a Tiny Mummy in the Atacama an Alien? No, but the
        Real Story Is Almost...

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/science/ata-mummy-alien-chile.html>
 6.


        Video Shows Las Vegas Gunman Gambling, Eating Alone and Filling
        His Suite With Guns

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/las-vegas-shooting-stephen-paddock.html>

 7.


        Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
        Donald Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html>

 8.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Cynthia Nixon and the Degradation of Experience

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/cynthia-nixon-experience-governor-ny.html>

 9.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Speaking as a White Male …

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/speaking-as-a-white-male.html>

10.


        How the Las Vegas Gunman Planned a Massacre, in 7 Days of Video

    <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/100000005794914/las-vegas-gunman-planned-massacre.html>


View More Trending Stories » <https://www.nytimes.com/trending>


    What's Next

Loading...

//Close this overlay


Go to previous
Go to next

Loading...

Go to Home Page » <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index The New York Times The New York Times
    <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index Navigation


      News

  * World <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


      Opinion

  * Today's Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html>
  * Op-Ed Columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>
  * Video: Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>


      Arts

  * Today's Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Books <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Video: Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>


      Living

  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>
  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Weddings & Celebrations
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>


      Listings & More

  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP>

  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage My Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * NYTCo <http://www.nytco.com/>


      Subscribe

  * Subscribe
  * // Home Delivery <https://www.nytimes.com/hdleftnav>
  * // Digital Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/digitalleftnav>
  * // Crossword
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/games/lp897H9.html?campaignId=49W8Y>


  * Email Newsletters <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newsletters>
  * Alerts <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/mem/tnt.html>
  * Gift Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/giftleftnav>
  * Group Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/corporateleftnav>
  * Education Rate <https://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav>

  * Mobile Applications
    <https://www.nytimes.com/services/mobile/index.html>
  * Replica Edition
    <http://eedition.nytimes.com/cgi-bin/signup.cgi?cc=37FYY>


    Site Information Navigation

  * © 2018The New York Times Company
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html>

  * Home <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * Search <http://query.nytimes.com/search/sitesearch/#/>
  * Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com
    <mailto:accessibility@nytimes.com>. We would love to hear from you.
  * Contact Us
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/infoservdirectory.html>
  * Work With Us <http://www.nytco.com/careers>
  * Advertise <http://nytmediakit.com/>
  * Your Ad Choices
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp>
  * Privacy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Terms of Service
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html>
  * Terms of Sale
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html>


    Site Information Navigation

  * Site Map <http://spiderbites.nytimes.com/>
  * Help <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter/sitehelp.html>
  * Site Feedback <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html>
  * Subscriptions
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW>


Go to the previous story


    Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

Go to the next story
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>



      advertisement

Continue »

//Close this modal window


  * Africa <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/africa>
  * Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/americas>
  * Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia>
  * Australia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/australia>
  * Europe <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe>
  * Middle East <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast>

  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Elections <http://elections.nytimes.com/>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Events <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>

  * DealBook <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/dealbook/index.html>
  * Economy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/economy>
  * Energy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/energy-environment>
  * Markets <http://markets.on.nytimes.com/>
  * Media <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/media>
  * Entrepreneurship
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/smallbusiness>
  * Your Money <https://www.nytimes.com/section/your-money>
  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>

  * Op-Ed Columnists
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>

  * Personal Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology/personaltech>

  * Climate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate>
  * Space & Cosmos <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science/space>

  * Well <https://www.nytimes.com/section/well>
  * Money & Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health/policy>
  * Health Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/index.html>

  * Baseball <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/baseball>
  * Basketball: College
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaabasketball>
  * Basketball: N.B.A. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball>
  * Football: College <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaafootball>
  * Football: N.F.L. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/football>
  * Golf <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/golf>
  * Hockey <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/hockey>
  * Soccer <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/soccer>
  * Tennis <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/tennis>

  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Watching <https://www.nytimes.com/watching>

  * Best Sellers <https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/>
  * By the Book <https://www.nytimes.com/column/by-the-book>
  * The Book Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review>
  * Book Review Podcast
    <https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast>

  * Men's Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/mens-style>
  * On the Runway <https://www.nytimes.com/column/on-the-runway>
  * Weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>

  * Cooking <http://cooking.nytimes.com/>
  * Restaurant Search <https://www.nytimes.com/reviews/dining>

  * The High End <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/the-high-end>
  * Commercial <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate/commercial>
  * iPhone App
    <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/nytimesrealestate/id337316535>
  * Find A Home <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/find-a-home>
  * Mortgage Calculator
    <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/mortgage-calculator>
  * My Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/my-real-estate>
  * List Your Home <https://realestateads.nytimes.com/>

  * U.S. & Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us-politics>
  * International <https://www.nytimes.com/video/world>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/video/n-y-region>
  * Op-Docs <https://www.nytimes.com/video/op-docs>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>
  * Times Documentaries <https://www.nytimes.com/video/times-documentaries>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/video/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/video/technology>
  * Culture <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>
  * Style <https://www.nytimes.com/video/style>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/video/t-magazine>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/video/health>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/video/dining-and-wine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/video/travel>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/video/sports>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/video/real-estate>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/video/science>

  * DealBook <http://nytdealbookconference.com/>
  * ClimateTECH <http://nytclimatetech.com/>
  * Global Strategy Summit <http://nytglobalstrategy.com/>
  * International Luxury Conference <http://nytluxury.com/>
  * Luxury Travel <http://nytluxurytravel.com/>
  * New Work Summit <http://newworksummit.com/>
  * Higher Ed Leaders Forum <http://nythigheredleaders.com/>
  * Athens Democracy Forum <http://athensdemocracyforum.com/>
  * Oil & Money <http://oilandmoney.com/>
  * Art Leaders Network <http://nytartleadersnetwork.com/>

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


  * Charles M. Blow <https://www.nytimes.com/column/charles-m-blow>
  * David Brooks <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-brooks>
  * Frank Bruni <https://www.nytimes.com/column/frank-bruni>
  * Roger Cohen <https://www.nytimes.com/column/roger-cohen>
  * Gail Collins <https://www.nytimes.com/column/gail-collins>
  * Ross Douthat <https://www.nytimes.com/column/ross-douthat>
  * Maureen Dowd <https://www.nytimes.com/column/maureen-dowd>
  * Thomas L. Friedman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/thomas-l-friedman>
  * Nicholas Kristof <https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof>
  * Paul Krugman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/paul-krugman>
  * David Leonhardt <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-leonhardt>
  * Andrew Rosenthal <https://www.nytimes.com/column/andrew-rosenthal>
  * Bret Stephens <https://www.nytimes.com/column/bret-stephens>

//Close this modal window


Verified Commenters
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/usercontent/verified/verified-commenters.html>
can leave comments on NYTimes.com without initial moderation. Verified
status is earned based on a history of quality comments.
//Close this modal window


          Edition

  * English <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * 中文 (Chinese) <http://cn.nytimes.com/>
  * Español <https://www.nytimes.com/es/>


          Help

  * FAQ <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/front.html>
  * Contact Us <http://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>


          Type Size

  * A Type size small <javascript:;>
  * A Type size medium <javascript:;>
  * A Type size large <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


  * Edit Profile <javascript:;>
  * My Account <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>
  * My Billing Information
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/get-started/manage-billing?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F13%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Fstormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html>
  * My Saved Items <http://www.nytimes.com/saved>
  * Log Out

//Close this modal window


      Log in


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F13%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Fstormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Sign up


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Edit Profile


        Your profile is public. It will appear with any comments you
        leave on NYTimes.com

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Complete your registration for a free New York Times account.
        Registered users can:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Log in to:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F13%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Fstormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window

