//NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html>
//Sections

// Home

//Search

Skip to content <#story-header> Skip to navigation
<#site-index-navigation> View mobile version
<http://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html>



    The New York Times The New York Times <https://www.nytimes.com/>


            Politics
            <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>|Mueller
            Subpoenas Trump Organization, Demanding Documents About Russia

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

//Search
Subscribe Now Log In
/2715

/ //0 //Settings
//Close search


    Site Search Navigation

Search NYTimes.com
//Clear this text input

Go

https://nyti.ms/2FLGLnE

 1.


        Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>

     1.


            Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up
            Continues

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     2.
        //


              Man in the News


            John Bolton, an Undiplomatic Voice for American Might

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-bolton-national-security-adviser.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     3.
        //


            Trump Congratulates Putin, but Doesn’t Mention Meddling in U.S.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/us/politics/trump-putin-russia.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     4.
        //


            Saudi Prince’s White House Visit Reinforces Trump’s
            Commitment to Heir Apparent

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/us/politics/saudi-crown-prince-arrives-at-white-house-to-meet-with-trump.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     5.
     6.
        //


            Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
            Donald Trump

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     7.
        //


            Three Examples of John Bolton’s Longtime Hard-Line Views

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-bolton-national-security-adv.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     8.
        //


            How the Left and the Right Reacted to John Bolton as
            National Security Adviser

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/republicans-democrats-react-bolton.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

     9.
        //


            Mattis Says Guantánamo Lawyers Were Fired Over Temperament,
            Not Legal Work

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/guantanamo-officials-fired-mattis.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    10.
        //


              News Analysis


            With Bolton, Trump Creates a Historically Hard-Line Foreign
            Policy...

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/bolton-trump-hard-liners.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    11.
        //


            John Bolton, Fresh From Fox News, Joins the Trump Cast

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/business/media/john-bolton-trump-fox-news.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    12.


            His Brother Was Shot in Chicago. He’s Marching With Students
            From Parkland.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000005806457/chicago-parkland-washington-march.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    13.
        //


            State Dept. Approves $670 Million Arms Deal With Saudi Arabia

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/us-arms-sales-saudi-arabia-.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    14.
        //


            Spending Plan Moving Through Congress Is a Rebuke to Trump.
            Here’s Why.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/trump-government-spending-bill.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    15.


            Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster to Leave the Trump White House

        <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000005814316/lt-gen-hr-mcmaster-to-leave-the-trump-white-house.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    16.
        //


            Beyond Gun Control, Student Marchers Aim to Upend Elections

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/march-for-our-lives-gun-control.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    17.
        //


            Tillerson Says Goodbye to ‘a Very Mean-Spirited Town’

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/tillerson-farewell-state-department-tweet.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    18.
        //


            Unbecoming a Trump

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    19.
        //


            House Republicans Say G.O.P. Establishment Opened Way for
            Russian Influence

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/house-intelligence-republicans-russia-collusion-trump.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    20.
        //


            ‘I Take Responsibility,’ Carson Says of $31,000 Furniture
            Purchase

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/ben-carson-hud-dining-set.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

    21.
        //


            House Passes $1.3 Trillion Spending Bill; Focus Shifts to
            Senate as Clock Ticks

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/house-passes-spending-bill.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>

 2.
    Loading...

See next articles

See previous articles


    Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>


    Site Navigation

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>

  * More


    Site Mobile Navigation

Advertisement

Supported by


      Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/politics/index.html>


  Mueller Subpoenas Trump Organization, Demanding Documents About Russia

By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT <https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-s-schmidt> and
MAGGIE HABERMAN <https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman>MARCH 15, 2018

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1> Share This Page
Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

/2715

/

Photo
//
It was not clear why the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, issued
the subpoena instead of simply asking for the documents from the
company. Credit Doug Mills/The New York Times

WASHINGTON — The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has subpoenaed
the Trump Organization in recent weeks to turn over documents, including
some related to Russia, according to two people briefed on the matter.
The order is the first known instance of the special counsel demanding
records directly related to President Trump’s businesses, bringing the
investigation closer to the president.

The breadth of the subpoena was not clear, nor was it clear why Mr.
Mueller issued it instead of simply asking for the documents from the
company, an umbrella organization that encompasses Mr. Trump’s business
ventures. Mr. Mueller ordered the Trump Organization to hand over
records related to Russia and other topics he is investigating, the
people said.

The subpoena is the latest indication that the investigation, which Mr.
Trump’s lawyers once regularly assured him would be completed by now,
will continue for at least several more months. Word of the subpoena
came as Mr. Mueller appears to be broadening his inquiry
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/03/us/politics/george-nader-mueller-investigation-united-arab-emirates.html>
to examine the role foreign money may have played in funding Mr. Trump’s
political activities. In recent weeks, Mr. Mueller’s investigators have
questioned witnesses, including an adviser to the United Arab Emirates
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/06/us/politics/george-nader-special-counsel-mueller-cooperating-seychelles.html>,
about the flow of Emirati money into the United States.

Mr. Mueller has already indicted 13 Russians and three companies
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/16/us/politics/russians-indicted-mueller-election-interference.html>
accused of meddling in the 2016 presidential campaign, and on Thursday,
the Trump administration included them in sanctions it leveled
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-russia-sanctions.html>at
Moscow
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-russia-sanctions.html>
as punishment for interference in the campaign and “malicious
cyberattacks.”
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/russia-cyberattacks.html>

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

The Trump Organization has typically complied with requests from
congressional investigators for documents for their own inquiries into
Russian election interference, and there was no indication the company
planned to fight Mr. Mueller’s order.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-2>


    The Trump White House
    <https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/donald-trump-white-house>


      The historic moments, head-spinning developments and
      inside-the-White House intrigue.

  *


        How the Left and the Right Reacted to John Bolton as National
        Security Adviser
        MAR 22

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/republicans-democrats-react-bolton.html?rref=collection%2Fnewseventcollection%2FThe%20Trump%20White%20House>


  *


        With Bolton, Trump Creates a Historically Hard-Line Foreign
        Policy Team
        MAR 22

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/bolton-trump-hard-liners.html?rref=collection%2Fnewseventcollection%2FThe%20Trump%20White%20House>


  *


        State Dept. Approves $670 Million Arms Deal With Saudi Arabia
        MAR 22

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/us-arms-sales-saudi-arabia-.html?rref=collection%2Fnewseventcollection%2FThe%20Trump%20White%20House>


  *


        Tillerson Says Goodbye to ‘a Very Mean-Spirited Town’
        MAR 22

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/tillerson-farewell-state-department-tweet.html?rref=collection%2Fnewseventcollection%2FThe%20Trump%20White%20House>


  *


        House Republicans Say G.O.P. Establishment Opened Way for
        Russian Influence
        MAR 22

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/house-intelligence-republicans-russia-collusion-trump.html?rref=collection%2Fnewseventcollection%2FThe%20Trump%20White%20House>


See More » <https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/donald-trump-white-house>


    Related Coverage

  *


        Trump Asked Key Witnesses About Matters They Discussed With
        Special Counsel MARCH 7, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/07/us/politics/trump-witnesses-special-counsel-priebus-mcgahn.html>


  *


        Despite Mueller’s Push, House Republicans Declare No Evidence of
        Collusion MARCH 12, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/12/us/politics/house-intelligence-trump-russia.html>


  *


        Adviser to Emirates With Ties to Trump Aides Is Cooperating With
        Special Counsel MARCH 6, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/06/us/politics/george-nader-special-counsel-mueller-cooperating-seychelles.html>


  *


        Clinton Impeachment Lawyer May Aid Trump in Mueller Response
        MARCH 10, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/us/politics/trump-mueller-flood.html>


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-3>

“Since July 2017, we have advised the public that the Trump Organization
is fully cooperative with all investigations, including the special
counsel, and is responding to their requests,” said Alan S. Futerfas, a
lawyer representing the Trump Organization. “This is old news and our
assistance and cooperation with the various investigations remains the
same today.”

The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, reiterated
during her daily briefing that the president was cooperating with the
special counsel inquiry and referred further questions to the Trump
Organization.

There are few other publicly known examples of Mr. Mueller using
subpoenas. In January, he ordered the president’s former chief
strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, to appear before a grand jury
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/16/us/politics/steve-bannon-mueller-russia-subpoena.html>.
Mr. Mueller dropped the subpoena after Mr. Bannon agreed to be
interviewed by investigators.

Mr. Mueller could run afoul of a line the president has warned him not
to cross. Though it is not clear how much of the subpoena is related to
Mr. Trump’s business outside ties to Russia, Mr. Trump said in an
interview with The New York Times in July that the special counsel would
be crossing a red line
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/19/us/politics/trump-interview-transcript.html>
if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with
Russia. The president declined to say how he would respond if he
concluded that the special counsel had crossed that line.


    Newsletter Sign Up

Continue reading the main story <#continues-post-newsletter>


      Get the Morning Briefing by Email

What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday
through Friday.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.

Invalid email address. Please re-enter.

You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up

You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services.


Thank you for subscribing.


An error has occurred. Please try again later.


You are already subscribed to this email.

View all New York Times newsletters. <https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters>

  * See Sample
    <http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/sample/morning-briefing?pgtype=subscriptionspage&version=new&contentId=NN&eventName=sample&module=newsletter-sign-up>
  * Privacy Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Opt out or contact us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime

Mr. Trump campaigned as a businessman whose deal-making prowess would
translate directly into reforming Washington. The argument helped propel
him to the White House, but the Trump Organization has been a magnet for
criticism from Democrats, ethics watchdogs and some Republicans, who
expressed concern that he remained vulnerable to conflicts of interest
<https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/01/20/us/politics/trump-conflicts-of-interest.html>
because he did not separate from the company.

Before Mr. Trump was sworn in, he pledged that he would stay uninvolved
in his businesses while in office but insisted it would be too punitive
for his business partners for him to divest from the company altogether.

Among the Trump Organization’s holdings are golf clubs, hotels and
licensing agreements for the use of the Trump name on properties and
other products. While its holdings are complex, the company has always
been run like a small, family-owned business; Mr. Trump brought in his
three eldest children to help run the enterprise.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-4>

The Trump Organization is not publicly held, making it difficult to
determine where it receives its money and invests it. The company has
said that it never had real estate holdings in Russia, but witnesses
recently interviewed by Mr. Mueller have been asked about a possible
real estate deal in Moscow.

In 2015, a longtime business associate of Mr. Trump’s, Felix Sater,
emailed Mr. Trump’s lawyer, Michael Cohen
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/28/us/politics/trump-tower-putin-felix-sater.html>,
at his Trump Organization account claiming he had ties to President
Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and that building a Trump Tower in Moscow
would help Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign. Mr. Trump signed a
nonbinding letter of intent for the project in 2015 and discussed it at
least three times with Mr. Cohen.

A revealing comment about Russia by Eric Trump, the president’s middle
son, also drew scrutiny when it emerged last year. James Dodson, a
longtime golf writer from North Carolina, said offhand in a radio
interview that Eric Trump, who oversees the golf courses for the Trump
Organization, told him in 2013 that the Trumps relied on Russian
investors
<http://www.charlotteobserver.com/news/local/article150517907.html> to
back their golf clubs. Eric Trump has denied those remarks.

Mr. Mueller was appointed in May to investigate whether Mr. Trump’s
campaign colluded with the Russians to influence the 2016 election and
any other matters that may arise from the inquiry.

A month later, the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened
to quit after Mr. Trump asked him to have Mr. Mueller fired
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/25/us/politics/trump-mueller-special-counsel-russia.html>
because the president believed he had conflict-of-interest issues that
precluded him from running the special counsel investigation.

/Write A Comment

/

Mr. Mueller is also examining whether the president has tried to
obstruct the investigation.

Mr. Trump’s lawyers are in negotiations with Mr. Mueller’s office about
whether and how to allow his investigators to interview the president.
Mr. Mueller’s office has shared topics it wants to discuss with the
president, according to two people familiar with the talks. The lawyers
have advised
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/05/us/politics/trump-lawyers-special-counsel-interview.html>Mr.
Trump
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/05/us/politics/trump-lawyers-special-counsel-interview.html>
to refuse an interview, but the president has said he wants to do it, as
he believes he has done nothing wrong and can easily answer
investigators’ questions.

At the same time, Mr. Trump is considering whether to bring on a new
lawyer to help represent him in the special counsel’s investigation.
Last week, Mr. Trump spoke with Emmet T. Flood
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/us/politics/trump-mueller-flood.html>,
a longtime Washington lawyer who represented former President Bill
Clinton during the impeachment process, about coming into the White
House to deal with the inquiry.

Michael S. Schmidt reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from
New York. Mike McIntire contributed reporting from New York.

/Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook
<https://www.facebook.com/nytpolitics>, Twitter
<https://twitter.com/nytpolitics> and the Morning Briefing newsletter
<http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/morning-briefing>./

A version of this article appears in print on March 16, 2018, on Page A1
of the New York edition with the headline: Mueller Demands Trump’s
Company Surrender Files. Order Reprints <http://www.nytreprints.com/>|
Today's Paper
<http://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>|Subscribe
<http://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp839RF.html?campaignId=48JQY>


Continue reading the main story <#whats-next>


  *
  *
  *
  *


    //Recent Comments


R.Will

March 16, 2018

According to Trump and his spokespersons, Trump was not involved with
asking Felix Sater to accompany his children in Moscow. According to...


Carol B. Russell

March 16, 2018

When Mueller finally reveals the entire infamy of Trump; and the
jeopardy which has been caused by cohorts of Trump....who should be...


AdrianB

March 16, 2018

Russian oligarchs.....Deutsche Bank.....money laundering....suspicious
loans.....Flynn....Manafort/Gates....Russian oil sanctions...all have...

  * See All Comments

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. *Tell us what you think.*

<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfLW30xgZodF1qRAg80oWEGuDpW-1HHaL0g42G3SmvB2f4lCw/viewform?entry.8537735=https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html>

//Close this panel


    //2715 Comments

Readers shared their thoughts on this article.

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to letters@nytimes.com <mailto:letters@nytimes.com>.

  * All 2715
  * Readers’ Picks 1939
  * NYT Picks 14
  * NYT Replies 2

newest
//
/NYT Pick

/


Jeff

Livermore, CA March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26338439>


The spiral of this investigation is growing ever closer to the
President, who, has, by the way, been conspicuously silent about it for
a couple of weeks now.Thank you Mr. Mueller.

  * //Flag
  * //2649Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Susan Watson

Vancouver March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26338474>


There is now no way for Mr. Trump to fire Mr. Mueller without it being
obstruction.

There was a lot of fuss made by Republicans about Mrs. Clinton's handing
over only emails pre-filtered to match her subpoena, but no withheld
emails falling into that category have ever been found. It seems she did
comply.

Presumably the Mueller inquiry already has at least some of the
documents demanded of the Trump organization. If Trump tries to withhold
damming documents the outcome will be more fraught for them.

  * //Flag
  * //1377Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Lawrence

Winchester, MA March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26338514>


"Mr. Mueller could run afoul of a line the president has warned him not
to cross."
I don't know why the person being investigated or questioned all of a
sudden gets to dictate the questions asked or the matters investigated.
That obviously should be and is up to the interrogator or investigator.
So many Trump administration members (Ben Carson, Hope Hicks, Steve
Bannon, others) have refused to answer questions posed by Congress,
without invoking a legitimate reason. Somehow, they have gotten a pass.
The public should not tolerate this. The inquiry is legitimate, or
challenge it on proper grounds. Otherwise, cooperate or suffer the
consequences. We should be imposing consequences.

  * //Flag
  * //3464Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


marty

andover, MA March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26338583>


Mueller is getting closer to the "endgame" which includes the possible
cooperation of Manafort via a plea deal. In the end, Mueller needs the
evidence to prove that Trump allowed his "branded" properties to be used
as "washing machines", i.e. for money laundering of Russian oligarch
ill-earned monies running to the hundreds of millions of dollars. The
Trump Organization clearly borrowed vast sums from the Russians after
American banks turned off the spigot, and enabling the Russians to
launder their money most likely benefitted Trump via less onerous
borrowing terms. Of course, the Russians "cultivated" Trump as well and
undoubtedly had what is called "Kompromat" on him, a portion of which
was alluded to in the Steele dossier. The question remains whether Trump
will "blow it up" by firing Mueller. We shall see.

  * //Flag
  * //1949Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


MF

Piermont, NY March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26338576>


Always, ALWAYS follow the money. It is the most eloquent of witnesses.
Especially when investigating an organization like Trump's with so many
shadowy dealings with shadowing figures.

  * //Flag
  * //3480Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Jordan Davies

/is a trusted commenter/ Huntington Vermont March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26339041>


From what I have read in The New Yorker and in other places, the Trump
Organization and Trump himself was and is very interested in real estate
deals with Russia including Trump towers in Moscow, etc. Follow the
money as everyone says.

Something is rotten in the state of Trump.

  * //Flag
  * //1492Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Mark Hugh Miller

/is a trusted commenter/ San Francisco, California March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26339058>


The "red line" that matters is the one Trump repeatedly hints he may
cross, by firing Robert Mueller. To me, that is proof that Trump is
fearful of what Mueller's probe might reveal. If he fires Mueller,
Americans will face a choice: either knuckle under to this wannabe
dictator, or stand up to him and his Capitol Hill cronies in the
streets, online, and at the voting booth. That's a red line I hope all
Americans who recognize that this republic is under a dangerous and
potentially successful attack by Trump's motley crew of ideologue
"populists" will cross together, by the millions. What else do we have
but our will to stand up to Trump's astonishing corruption, immorality,
and incompetence?

  * //Flag
  * //3362Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Adrian Shepard

Harrisburg, PA March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26339031>


So sometimes, Trump is the most inept and bumbling president in history,
but when it comes to the Russia investigation, he's the most brilliant,
conniving, and devious mastermind.

It's been over a year and a half and Mueller has little more than
process crimes against nobodies, pleas that don't establish the
existence of any collusion, and unrelated charges against Manafort. Does
anyone really believe Trump is capable of orchestrating such a
conspiracy with Russia that it's remained hidden for this long and not a
single soul has come forward about it, despite leaks about almost
everything else about Trump and his presidency so far?

This has been, and continues to be, a fishing expedition.

  * //Flag
  * //63Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Bruce Pestell

Surprise,AZ March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26339249:26339936>


A witch hunt is an investigation into the private affairs of a subject
where no crime is evident. This is exactly what Mueller is doing.
Doesn't take a "bot" to see this. This is actually an attempted coup by
the democrats and federal
government establishment by conspiracy and collusion with the biased
corrupt media.

  * //Flag
  * In Reply to Walter Beach
  * //39Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Debra

Chicago March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26340897>


I'm a little confused about what a money laundering charge actually
does. What is the penalty? Trump's casinos were repeatedly fined for
violating rules which are designed to prevent money laundering. Deutsch
bank had big fines (which I think Trump forgave) for violating money
laundering guidelines. This doesn't seem like it crosses the line for
some Republicans or Trump supporters, particularly if it looks innocent
or doesn't have some corrupt intent. So even if the President borrowed
millions from Russian oligarchs, is that illegal? Is there some law that
the President cannot use millions of dollars to some other country? Is
that an emoluments violation if it is occurring before the election?

  * //Flag
  * //86Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


ChristineMcM

/is a trusted commenter/ Massachusetts March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26340999>


I find it the height of arrogance for anyone--president or not--to lay
down a red line when it's clear they have lied continuously about
contacts with Russia.

Robert Mueller is no fool. Anybody can see a man who refuses to say a
bad word about Vladimir Putin is likely compromised either financially
or in some other way.

What we all need to fear now, however, is another attempt to fire Robert
Mueller. We like to think we're a country of laws, but the way this GOP
is protecting the president, I'm not so sure any more.

He proclaims his innocence at the same time he says there's a red line
into his business dealings--investigating them is the only way to
determine why the president acts so bizarrely towards Russia.

Get ready for some rough days ahead.

  * //Flag
  * //1460Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


ed

honolulu March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26341614>


Mueller's branching out because he's finding nothing branching in.
Nobody cares about the Trump Org. anymore than they care about Hillary's
foundation. It's time to end this long national charade whose only
purpose is to allow the Democrats to continue in denial. They lost.
Period. Nothing will change that.

  * //Flag
  * //40Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Alan

Hawaii March 15, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26341713>


As Shakespeare wrote, “What’s past is prologue.” The effort toward
increasingly warm ties between Moscow and the Trump Organization, aka
Donald Trump, go back years before the 2016 election, and reportedly
include not only efforts to reach development deals, but also
questionable financial transactions and possible money laundering. To
say this is separate from the election attack, and that a red line has
been crossed, is as absurd as separating the sowing of a seed from the
plant that follows. Mr. Mueller appear right on target and well within
his mandate.

  * //Flag
  * //997Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Al Crosby

Ottawa March 16, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/15/us/politics/trump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html#permid=26343602:26345061>


I hope you don't mean Robert S Mueller is a fake. In addition to the
Bronze Star Medal and Navy Commendations he also received the Purple
Heart Medal for heroism, the Combat Action Ribbon, National Defense
Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal with three service stars, Republic
of Vietnam Gallantry Cross, and Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal.

What recognition for service did Donald Trump get? Nothing I believe.

  * //Flag
  * In Reply to IJonah
  * //552Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

Loading...
Read More //

View all 2715 comments


    //2715 Comments

Readers shared their thoughts on this article.

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to letters@nytimes.com <mailto:letters@nytimes.com>.

  * All 2715
  * Readers’ Picks 1939
  * NYT Picks 14
  * NYT Replies 2

newest
//


    Related Coverage

 1.


        Trump Asked Key Witnesses About Matters They Discussed With
        Special Counsel MARCH 7, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/07/us/politics/trump-witnesses-special-counsel-priebus-mcgahn.html>


 2.


        Despite Mueller’s Push, House Republicans Declare No Evidence of
        Collusion MARCH 12, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/12/us/politics/house-intelligence-trump-russia.html>


 3.


        Adviser to Emirates With Ties to Trump Aides Is Cooperating With
        Special Counsel MARCH 6, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/06/us/politics/george-nader-special-counsel-mueller-cooperating-seychelles.html>


 4.


        Clinton Impeachment Lawyer May Aid Trump in Mueller Response
        MARCH 10, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/us/politics/trump-mueller-flood.html>



    Trending

 1.


        Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html>

 2.


        Why He Kayaked Across the Atlantic at 70 (for the Third Time)

    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/03/22/magazine/voyages-kayaking-across-ocean-at-70.html>

 3.


        Trump’s Lawyer Resigns as President Adopts Aggressive Approach
        in Russia Inquiry

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-dowd-resigns-trump-lawyer.html>

 4.


        Unbecoming a Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html>
 5.


        Matter: Was a Tiny Mummy in the Atacama an Alien? No, but the
        Real Story Is Almost...

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/science/ata-mummy-alien-chile.html>
 6.


        Video Shows Las Vegas Gunman Gambling, Eating Alone and Filling
        His Suite With Guns

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/las-vegas-shooting-stephen-paddock.html>

 7.


        Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
        Donald Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html>

 8.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Cynthia Nixon and the Degradation of Experience

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/cynthia-nixon-experience-governor-ny.html>

 9.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Speaking as a White Male …

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/speaking-as-a-white-male.html>

10.


        How the Las Vegas Gunman Planned a Massacre, in 7 Days of Video

    <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/100000005794914/las-vegas-gunman-planned-massacre.html>


View More Trending Stories » <https://www.nytimes.com/trending>


    What's Next

Loading...

//Close this overlay


Go to previous
Go to next

Loading...

Go to Home Page » <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index The New York Times The New York Times
    <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index Navigation


      News

  * World <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


      Opinion

  * Today's Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html>
  * Op-Ed Columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>
  * Video: Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>


      Arts

  * Today's Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Books <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Video: Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>


      Living

  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>
  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Weddings & Celebrations
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>


      Listings & More

  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP>

  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage My Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * NYTCo <http://www.nytco.com/>


      Subscribe

  * Subscribe
  * // Home Delivery <https://www.nytimes.com/hdleftnav>
  * // Digital Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/digitalleftnav>
  * // Crossword
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/games/lp897H9.html?campaignId=49W8Y>


  * Email Newsletters <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newsletters>
  * Alerts <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/mem/tnt.html>
  * Gift Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/giftleftnav>
  * Group Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/corporateleftnav>
  * Education Rate <https://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav>

  * Mobile Applications
    <https://www.nytimes.com/services/mobile/index.html>
  * Replica Edition
    <http://eedition.nytimes.com/cgi-bin/signup.cgi?cc=37FYY>


    Site Information Navigation

  * © 2018The New York Times Company
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html>

  * Home <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * Search <http://query.nytimes.com/search/sitesearch/#/>
  * Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com
    <mailto:accessibility@nytimes.com>. We would love to hear from you.
  * Contact Us
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/infoservdirectory.html>
  * Work With Us <http://www.nytco.com/careers>
  * Advertise <http://nytmediakit.com/>
  * Your Ad Choices
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp>
  * Privacy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Terms of Service
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html>
  * Terms of Sale
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html>


    Site Information Navigation

  * Site Map <http://spiderbites.nytimes.com/>
  * Help <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter/sitehelp.html>
  * Site Feedback <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html>
  * Subscriptions
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW>


Go to the previous story


    Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

Go to the next story
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=politics>



  * Africa <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/africa>
  * Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/americas>
  * Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia>
  * Australia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/australia>
  * Europe <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe>
  * Middle East <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast>

  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Elections <http://elections.nytimes.com/>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Events <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>

  * DealBook <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/dealbook/index.html>
  * Economy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/economy>
  * Energy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/energy-environment>
  * Markets <http://markets.on.nytimes.com/>
  * Media <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/media>
  * Entrepreneurship
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/smallbusiness>
  * Your Money <https://www.nytimes.com/section/your-money>
  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>

  * Op-Ed Columnists
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>

  * Personal Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology/personaltech>

  * Climate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate>
  * Space & Cosmos <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science/space>

  * Well <https://www.nytimes.com/section/well>
  * Money & Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health/policy>
  * Health Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/index.html>

  * Baseball <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/baseball>
  * Basketball: College
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaabasketball>
  * Basketball: N.B.A. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball>
  * Football: College <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaafootball>
  * Football: N.F.L. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/football>
  * Golf <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/golf>
  * Hockey <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/hockey>
  * Soccer <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/soccer>
  * Tennis <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/tennis>

  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Watching <https://www.nytimes.com/watching>

  * Best Sellers <https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/>
  * By the Book <https://www.nytimes.com/column/by-the-book>
  * The Book Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review>
  * Book Review Podcast
    <https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast>

  * Men's Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/mens-style>
  * On the Runway <https://www.nytimes.com/column/on-the-runway>
  * Weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>

  * Cooking <http://cooking.nytimes.com/>
  * Restaurant Search <https://www.nytimes.com/reviews/dining>

  * The High End <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/the-high-end>
  * Commercial <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate/commercial>
  * iPhone App
    <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/nytimesrealestate/id337316535>
  * Find A Home <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/find-a-home>
  * Mortgage Calculator
    <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/mortgage-calculator>
  * My Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/my-real-estate>
  * List Your Home <https://realestateads.nytimes.com/>

  * U.S. & Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us-politics>
  * International <https://www.nytimes.com/video/world>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/video/n-y-region>
  * Op-Docs <https://www.nytimes.com/video/op-docs>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>
  * Times Documentaries <https://www.nytimes.com/video/times-documentaries>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/video/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/video/technology>
  * Culture <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>
  * Style <https://www.nytimes.com/video/style>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/video/t-magazine>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/video/health>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/video/dining-and-wine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/video/travel>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/video/sports>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/video/real-estate>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/video/science>

  * DealBook <http://nytdealbookconference.com/>
  * ClimateTECH <http://nytclimatetech.com/>
  * Global Strategy Summit <http://nytglobalstrategy.com/>
  * International Luxury Conference <http://nytluxury.com/>
  * Luxury Travel <http://nytluxurytravel.com/>
  * New Work Summit <http://newworksummit.com/>
  * Higher Ed Leaders Forum <http://nythigheredleaders.com/>
  * Athens Democracy Forum <http://athensdemocracyforum.com/>
  * Oil & Money <http://oilandmoney.com/>
  * Art Leaders Network <http://nytartleadersnetwork.com/>

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


  * Charles M. Blow <https://www.nytimes.com/column/charles-m-blow>
  * David Brooks <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-brooks>
  * Frank Bruni <https://www.nytimes.com/column/frank-bruni>
  * Roger Cohen <https://www.nytimes.com/column/roger-cohen>
  * Gail Collins <https://www.nytimes.com/column/gail-collins>
  * Ross Douthat <https://www.nytimes.com/column/ross-douthat>
  * Maureen Dowd <https://www.nytimes.com/column/maureen-dowd>
  * Thomas L. Friedman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/thomas-l-friedman>
  * Nicholas Kristof <https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof>
  * Paul Krugman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/paul-krugman>
  * David Leonhardt <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-leonhardt>
  * Andrew Rosenthal <https://www.nytimes.com/column/andrew-rosenthal>
  * Bret Stephens <https://www.nytimes.com/column/bret-stephens>

//Close this modal window


Verified Commenters
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/usercontent/verified/verified-commenters.html>
can leave comments on NYTimes.com without initial moderation. Verified
status is earned based on a history of quality comments.
//Close this modal window


          Edition

  * English <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * 中文 (Chinese) <http://cn.nytimes.com/>
  * Español <https://www.nytimes.com/es/>


          Help

  * FAQ <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/front.html>
  * Contact Us <http://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>


          Type Size

  * A Type size small <javascript:;>
  * A Type size medium <javascript:;>
  * A Type size large <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


  * Edit Profile <javascript:;>
  * My Account <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>
  * My Billing Information
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/get-started/manage-billing?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F03%2F15%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ftrump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html>
  * My Saved Items <http://www.nytimes.com/saved>
  * Log Out

//Close this modal window


      Log in


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F03%2F15%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ftrump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Sign up


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Edit Profile


        Your profile is public. It will appear with any comments you
        leave on NYTimes.com

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Complete your registration for a free New York Times account.
        Registered users can:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Log in to:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F03%2F15%2Fus%2Fpolitics%2Ftrump-organization-subpoena-mueller-russia.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window

