//NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html>
//Sections

// Home

//Search

Skip to content <#story-header> Skip to navigation
<#site-index-navigation> View mobile version
<http://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/02/17/world/trump-tower-india.html>


    The New York Times The New York Times <https://www.nytimes.com/>


            World
            <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/index.html>|President
            or Luxury Towers: Either Way, Trump Is the Rage in India

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

//Search
Subscribe Now Log In //0 //Settings
//Close search


    Site Search Navigation

Search NYTimes.com
//Clear this text input

Go

https://nyti.ms/2C5iue2

 1.


        World <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/index.html>

     1.
        //


            Trump’s Trade Threats Put China’s Leader on the Spot

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/donald-trump-tariffs-china.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

     2.
        //


            Emboldened Turkey Pushes Deeper Into Syria, but Risks Abound

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/middleeast/turkey-syria-afrin.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

     3.
        //


              Kubinka Journal


            Patriotic Youth Army Takes Russian Kids Back to the Future

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/europe/russia-soviet-youth-army.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

     4.
        //


            Emmanuel Macron Becomes France’s Answer to Strongman Populism

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/europe/emmanuel-macron-france-national-assembly.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

     5.
     6.
        //


            Strikes Disrupt France as Thousands Protest Macron Overhauls

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/europe/france-strikes-protest-macron.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

     7.
        //


            A Low-Profile Engineer Is Set to Take Power in Peru

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/americas/peru-kuczynski-martin-vizcarra.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

     8.


            Post-Brexit U.K. Is Getting New Passports, Probably From France

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/europe/britain-passport-france.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

     9.
        //


            Slovaks Meet the New Bosses. They’re Not Much Different From
            the Old Bosses.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/europe/slovakia-government-jan-kuciak.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    10.
        //


            Now Prohibited in Ukraine’s Parliamentary Chamber: Weapons

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/europe/ukraine-guns-parliament-savchenko.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    11.
        //


            The 5 Most-Read ‘Modern Love’ Columns in Australia

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/australia/modern-love-five-most-read.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    12.
        //


            Three Examples of John Bolton’s Longtime Hard-Line Views

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-bolton-national-security-adv.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    13.
        //


            Responding to Trump, China Plans New Tariffs on U.S. Goods

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/china-trump-retaliatory-tariffs.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    14.


            Journalist Killed in Mexican State of Veracruz

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/americas/mexico-journalist-killed.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    15.
        //


            Beg, Borrow or Steal: How Trump Says China Takes Technology

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/business/china-trump-trade-intellectual-property.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    16.
        //


            Pennsylvania College Athlete in Bermuda Died From Fall,
            Officials Say

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/bermuda-student-mark-dombroski.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    17.
        //


            Facebook, John Dowd, Syria: Your Thursday Evening Briefing

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/briefing/facebook-john-dowd-syria.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    18.
        //


            Greenhouse Gas Emissions Rose Last Year. Here Are the Top 5
            Reasons.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/climate/global-energy-demand.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    19.
        //


            In South Korea, Another Former President Lands in Jail

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/south-korea-lee-myung-bak-arrest-corruption.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    20.
        //


            Russian News Outlets Boycott Parliament After Harassment
            Decision

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/europe/russian-news-media-boycott-parliament-harassment.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

    21.
        //


              Global Health


            South Sudan Halts Spread of Crippling Guinea Worms

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/health/south-sudan-guinea-worms.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>

 2.
    Loading...

See next articles

See previous articles


    World <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/index.html>


    Site Navigation

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>

  * More


    Site Mobile Navigation

Advertisement

Supported by


      World <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/index.html>


  President or Luxury Towers: Either Way, Trump Is the Rage in India

By MARIA ABI-HABIB <https://www.nytimes.com/by/maria-abi-habib> and ERIC
LIPTON <https://www.nytimes.com/by/eric-lipton>FEB. 17, 2018

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1> Share This Page
Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

Photo
//
Construction workers passing the site where ground will soon be broken
for a Trump development in Gurgaon, India. President Trump’s eldest son
is expected to arrive in India on Monday to help sell luxury residential
units. Credit The New York Times

GURGAON, India — When the Trump family jet lands in India this week, the
family member taking a tour of the world’s largest democracy — with a
Secret Service detail in tow — won’t be the president on a diplomatic
mission. It will be his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., on a sales trip.

But Indians might be forgiven for not making much of the distinction.

The visit by the younger Mr. Trump, intended to help sell more than $1
billion in luxury residential units being built by the Trumps and their
local partners, has been promoted with newspaper advertisements that
read: “Trump has arrived. Have you?”

The younger Mr. Trump’s weeklong itinerary of cocktail parties, dinners
and events with real estate brokers, business leaders and prospective
buyers comes as President Trump is working to strengthen ties between
the two countries.

The president, who enjoys widespread popularity in India, was greeted by
Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a bear hug in Washington last June,
and the two leaders have frequently discussed greater military
cooperation and ramping up trade. Mr. Trump has also taken a harder line
toward Pakistan
<https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/947802588174577664?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw&ref_url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.latimes.com%2Fworld%2Fasia%2Fla-fg-global-aizaz-ahmad-chaudhry-qa-20180214-story.html>
and China
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/05/us/politics/trump-china-north-korea.html>,
two of India’s rivals. Two weeks ago, President Trump phoned Mr. Modi
pledging “to strengthen security and economic cooperation” between India
and the United States.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-2>
Photo
//
From left, Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India and President Trump
during a bilateral meeting in Manila last year. Credit Doug Mills/The
New York Times

The overlap in India between father and son creates a spectacle with few
parallels in business and diplomacy.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-4>

The younger Mr. Trump is scheduled to arrive on Monday on a Boeing 757
nicknamed Trump Force One, because the president crisscrossed the United
States on the plane during the campaign.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-5>

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-6>

The Trump family earned as much as $3 million in royalties in 2016 from
ventures in India, according to the president’s financial disclosure
report
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/3867989-Trump-Donald-J-2017-Financial-Disclosure-Report.html>.
And Ivanka Trump made her own trip to India in November
<https://translations.state.gov/2017/11/28/remarks-by-ms-ivanka-trump-advisor-to-the-president-at-the-ges-2017-opening-plenary/>,
in her capacity as a member of Trump administration, just as sales were
about to start on some of the residential projects.

“The idea that the president’s son would be going and shilling the
president’s brand at same time Donald Trump is president and is managing
strategic and foreign relations with India — that is just bizarre,” said
Daniel S. Markey <https://www.sais-jhu.edu/dmarkey1>, who helped
coordinate South Asia policy at the State Department during the George
W. Bush administration.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-7>
Photo
//
The Trump Tower in Mumbai, India, far right, under construction in 2016.
Credit Asmita Parelkar for The New York Times

There are no formal federal rules that prohibit the younger Mr. Trump
from pursuing his business interests; he is a private citizen. And even
though President Trump is still a beneficial owner of the family
business, he is not subject to conflict of interest laws, as the
president is exempt. The White House, asked if Donald Trump Jr.’s trip
gave even an appearance of a conflict of interest, declined to comment
on the matter.

India is the Trump Organization’s biggest international market, with
four real estate projects underway. The largest is here in Gurgaon, a
fast-growing city outside New Delhi with a litany of Fortune 500
companies and a skyline filled with skyscrapers. The Trump development
encompasses two towers with a total of 254 “ultra luxury” units
<http://trumptowersdelhincr.com/>, according to the company, each
selling for up to $1.5 million.

The luxury apartment buildings near the Trump development in Gurgaon
have names like Palm Springs and Central Park, even as they overlook
pothole-ridden highways. The Trumps and their partners are offering
buyers the opportunity to become “members of the Trump family,” with the
promise of exclusive amenities such as an infinity swimming pool, a
billiards room and valet services. The marketing materials, however,
don’t mention the president — his name and image, as well as that of his
daughter Ivanka, who joined his administration, were removed from
brochures, websites and billboards from projects in India and elsewhere
in the world.

Still, confusion among Indians is evident.

“I had no idea that Trump built property around the world before this
development was launched,” said Hitesh Khanna, who is helping sell units
at the Trump towers in Gurgaon through a local real estate brokerage
firm. “I just thought he was president.”

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-9>


  *
  *
  *
  *

Photo
//
The Trump Towers development being prominently advertised at a Tribeca
showroom in Gurgaon. Credit The New York Times

Mr. Khanna’s boss, Rajiv Bansal, predicted the presidential connection
would create enough buzz to entice buyers. Mr. Khanna was working out of
a roadside tent near the construction site, with a tattered emerald
green felt carpet at its entrance.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-11>

“Everyone in India knows who the U.S. president is,” Mr. Bansal said.
“It’s a status symbol. This is a big brand, the president of the United
States’ name will be on it.”

Donald Trump Jr., in an interview in New York last week, said that he
had spent nearly a decade “cultivating relationships in India” and that
the company was “now seeing the response of that effort.” To that point,
the newspaper advertisements in India featured large photographs of him,
arms crossed and staring into the camera.

The younger Mr. Trump said his itinerary did not include interactions
with government officials in an intentional effort to steer clear of
politics.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-12>
Photo
//
Hitesh Khanna, center, tried to help sell units at the planned Trump
development in Gurgaon, operating out of a roadside tent near the site.
Credit The New York Times

“We certainly won’t get involved in that,” he said, when asked if the
company would seek concessions or incentives for the developments from
Indian officials. “Not at all.”

He is scheduled, nonetheless, to speak at the Global Business Summit
<http://www.et-gbs.com/speakers-category/current-speakers/> in New
Delhi, sponsored by a prominent Indian newspaper and a bank, who say the
event will “showcase India’s rise in world affairs.” Mr. Trump is billed
as a keynote speaker, along with Prime Minister Modi.

Other stops on the 3,000-mile journey include Kolkata, where
construction on a project with 137 luxury units
<http://trumptowerkolkata.com/> is about to begin; Mumbai, where a
78-story Trump-branded tower
<https://www.trump.com/real-estate-portfolio/india/trump-tower-mumbai/>
with 400 residences is scheduled to be completed next year; and Pune, a
city near Mumbai, where a fourth Trump-branded project
<http://trumptowerspune.com/> has been built.

The Trumps’ partner in Pune is Panchshil Realty, which was co-founded
<https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/us/politics/donald-trump-india-business.html>
and is run by two brothers, Atul Chordia and Sagar Chordia, who are
active in the opposition Nationalist Congress Party and who have
<https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/26/us/politics/donald-trump-international-business.html>
a longstanding relationship with the head of the party, Sharad Pawar.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-14>
Photo
//
Donald Trump Jr., left, and Eric Trump at the Trump Tower in New York
last year. “I personally have spent a tremendous time cultivating
relationships in India and we are now seeing the response of that
effort,” Donald Jr. said. Credit Todd Heisler/The New York Times

The Trump Organization has not put up capital for its Indian projects,
instead relying on Indian-based partners whose investors include Morgan
Stanley and a Singapore investment fund. The Trump Organization gets a
cut of the sales, with payments increasing if the units sell above
market rates.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-16>

So far, according to business partners in India, many units are selling
about 30 percent per square foot higher than market rates. The younger
Mr. Trump’s visit this week is expected to reinforce that trend, they
said, even as many other luxury housing towers have hundreds of empty
units. In addition to an oversupply, a recent Indian government
crackdown on the so-called black money economy has hurt sales at
competing developments, but the Trump name remains a draw.

“The brand is a lead generator,” said Kalpesh Mehta
<http://www.tribecadevelopers.com/people.php>, who runs the Mumbai-based
development company Tribeca <http://www.tribecadevelopers.com/>, which
serves as the lead representative for the Trump brand in India. “It is
what is making people pay attention and look at it deeply.”

Buyers who put down a deposit this week, according to an advertisement
wrapped around the front page of The Hindustan Times this weekend, are
promised a seat at a dinner with the younger Mr. Trump.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-17>
Photo
//
An electricity pylon bearing a banner promoting the Trump development.
Credit The New York Times

Madhav Das Nalapat, an academic and prominent newspaper columnist who is
close to senior members of India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, said
the excitement around the Trump towers was an extension of the country’s
complicated caste system and the Trump administration’s tough stance on
its rival Pakistan.

“India is a hierarchical society,” he said. “Trump is now leading the
No. 1 country in the world, so his brand has higher value. That counts.
It’s not who he is. It’s what he is.”

Under voluntary ethics rules governing the Trump Organization’s
activities during the Trump presidency, international projects in the
works before the 2016 election — which include all of the India
properties now being marketed — can proceed as planned. President Trump
handed over daily operations of the company to his sons Donald Jr. and
Eric, but he remains the owner.

Still, some ethics lawyers say the mere presence of the Trump
Organization in India is problematic.

“The question isn’t just whether Don Trump Jr. is making phone calls to
say, ‘Give me a favor,’” said Zephyr Teachout
<https://www.fordham.edu/info/23186/zephyr_teachout>, a Fordham
University law professor who is part of a lawsuit claiming that
President Trump’s business ties violate the emoluments clause of the
Constitution. “It is by having these business entanglements, does it
create incentives and opportunities for people in the Indian government
to try to use the business relations to impact American policy.”

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-19>
Photo
//
A vendor stacking newspapers with advertisements for the proposed Trump
towers development in Gurgaon. Credit The New York Times

The Trump family’s financial interests in India could also call into
question the president’s objectivity in dealing with the country, Ms.
Teachout said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-21>

“It looks bad, it smells bad, and it leaves an uncertainty in the faith
of the American public about the diplomatic choices that the Trump
administration makes regarding India,” she said.

Arun Kumar Singh <https://www.indianembassy.org/pages.php?id=121>, a
former ambassador to the United States from India, and Mr. Markey, the
former State Department official who is now a professor at Johns Hopkins
University’s School of Advanced International Studies, said they had not
seen changes in United States policy toward India that they would
attribute to President Trump’s business interests.

The biggest difference from the Obama administration, they said, was the
apparent warmth between President Trump and Prime Minister Modi.

“I have always had a deep admiration for your country and for its
people, and a profound appreciation for your rich culture, heritage and
traditions,” President Trump said in June
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-prime-minister-modi-india-joint-press-statement/>
during a state visit by Prime Minister Modi, one of many such words of
praise for India he has offered in the last year.

Maria Abi-Habib reported from Gurgaon, India, and Eric Lipton from New
York. Suhasini Raj contributed reporting from Gurgaon, and Mark Landler
from Washington.

A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page
A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Profits, Not Diplomacy,
Draw a Trump to India. Order Reprints <http://www.nytreprints.com/>|
Today's Paper
<http://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>|Subscribe
<http://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp839RF.html?campaignId=48JQY>


Continue reading the main story <#whats-next>

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. *Tell us what you think.*

<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfLW30xgZodF1qRAg80oWEGuDpW-1HHaL0g42G3SmvB2f4lCw/viewform?entry.8537735=https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/17/world/trump-tower-india.html>



    Trending

 1.


        Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html>

 2.


        Why He Kayaked Across the Atlantic at 70 (for the Third Time)

    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/03/22/magazine/voyages-kayaking-across-ocean-at-70.html>

 3.


        Trump’s Lawyer Resigns as President Adopts Aggressive Approach
        in Russia Inquiry

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-dowd-resigns-trump-lawyer.html>

 4.


        Unbecoming a Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html>
 5.


        Matter: Was a Tiny Mummy in the Atacama an Alien? No, but the
        Real Story Is Almost...

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/science/ata-mummy-alien-chile.html>
 6.


        Video Shows Las Vegas Gunman Gambling, Eating Alone and Filling
        His Suite With Guns

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/las-vegas-shooting-stephen-paddock.html>

 7.


        Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
        Donald Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html>

 8.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Cynthia Nixon and the Degradation of Experience

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/cynthia-nixon-experience-governor-ny.html>

 9.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Speaking as a White Male …

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/speaking-as-a-white-male.html>

10.


        How the Las Vegas Gunman Planned a Massacre, in 7 Days of Video

    <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/100000005794914/las-vegas-gunman-planned-massacre.html>


View More Trending Stories » <https://www.nytimes.com/trending>


    What's Next

Loading...

//Close this overlay


Go to previous
Go to next

Loading...

Go to Home Page » <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index The New York Times The New York Times
    <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index Navigation


      News

  * World <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


      Opinion

  * Today's Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html>
  * Op-Ed Columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>
  * Video: Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>


      Arts

  * Today's Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Books <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Video: Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>


      Living

  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>
  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Weddings & Celebrations
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>


      Listings & More

  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP>

  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage My Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * NYTCo <http://www.nytco.com/>


      Subscribe

  * Subscribe
  * // Home Delivery <https://www.nytimes.com/hdleftnav>
  * // Digital Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/digitalleftnav>
  * // Crossword
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/games/lp897H9.html?campaignId=49W8Y>


  * Email Newsletters <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newsletters>
  * Alerts <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/mem/tnt.html>
  * Gift Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/giftleftnav>
  * Group Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/corporateleftnav>
  * Education Rate <https://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav>

  * Mobile Applications
    <https://www.nytimes.com/services/mobile/index.html>
  * Replica Edition
    <http://eedition.nytimes.com/cgi-bin/signup.cgi?cc=37FYY>


    Site Information Navigation

  * © 2018The New York Times Company
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html>

  * Home <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * Search <http://query.nytimes.com/search/sitesearch/#/>
  * Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com
    <mailto:accessibility@nytimes.com>. We would love to hear from you.
  * Contact Us
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/infoservdirectory.html>
  * Work With Us <http://www.nytco.com/careers>
  * Advertise <http://nytmediakit.com/>
  * Your Ad Choices
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp>
  * Privacy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Terms of Service
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html>
  * Terms of Sale
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html>


    Site Information Navigation

  * Site Map <http://spiderbites.nytimes.com/>
  * Help <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter/sitehelp.html>
  * Site Feedback <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html>
  * Subscriptions
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW>


Go to the previous story


    Trump’s Trade Threats Put China’s Leader on the Spot

Go to the next story
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/asia/donald-trump-tariffs-china.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world>



      advertisement

Continue »

//Close this modal window


  * Africa <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/africa>
  * Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/americas>
  * Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia>
  * Australia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/australia>
  * Europe <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe>
  * Middle East <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast>

  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Elections <http://elections.nytimes.com/>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Events <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>

  * DealBook <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/dealbook/index.html>
  * Economy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/economy>
  * Energy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/energy-environment>
  * Markets <http://markets.on.nytimes.com/>
  * Media <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/media>
  * Entrepreneurship
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/smallbusiness>
  * Your Money <https://www.nytimes.com/section/your-money>
  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>

  * Op-Ed Columnists
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>

  * Personal Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology/personaltech>

  * Climate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate>
  * Space & Cosmos <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science/space>

  * Well <https://www.nytimes.com/section/well>
  * Money & Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health/policy>
  * Health Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/index.html>

  * Baseball <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/baseball>
  * Basketball: College
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaabasketball>
  * Basketball: N.B.A. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball>
  * Football: College <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaafootball>
  * Football: N.F.L. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/football>
  * Golf <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/golf>
  * Hockey <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/hockey>
  * Soccer <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/soccer>
  * Tennis <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/tennis>

  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Watching <https://www.nytimes.com/watching>

  * Best Sellers <https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/>
  * By the Book <https://www.nytimes.com/column/by-the-book>
  * The Book Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review>
  * Book Review Podcast
    <https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast>

  * Men's Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/mens-style>
  * On the Runway <https://www.nytimes.com/column/on-the-runway>
  * Weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>

  * Cooking <http://cooking.nytimes.com/>
  * Restaurant Search <https://www.nytimes.com/reviews/dining>

  * The High End <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/the-high-end>
  * Commercial <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate/commercial>
  * iPhone App
    <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/nytimesrealestate/id337316535>
  * Find A Home <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/find-a-home>
  * Mortgage Calculator
    <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/mortgage-calculator>
  * My Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/my-real-estate>
  * List Your Home <https://realestateads.nytimes.com/>

  * U.S. & Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us-politics>
  * International <https://www.nytimes.com/video/world>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/video/n-y-region>
  * Op-Docs <https://www.nytimes.com/video/op-docs>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>
  * Times Documentaries <https://www.nytimes.com/video/times-documentaries>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/video/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/video/technology>
  * Culture <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>
  * Style <https://www.nytimes.com/video/style>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/video/t-magazine>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/video/health>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/video/dining-and-wine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/video/travel>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/video/sports>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/video/real-estate>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/video/science>

  * DealBook <http://nytdealbookconference.com/>
  * ClimateTECH <http://nytclimatetech.com/>
  * Global Strategy Summit <http://nytglobalstrategy.com/>
  * International Luxury Conference <http://nytluxury.com/>
  * Luxury Travel <http://nytluxurytravel.com/>
  * New Work Summit <http://newworksummit.com/>
  * Higher Ed Leaders Forum <http://nythigheredleaders.com/>
  * Athens Democracy Forum <http://athensdemocracyforum.com/>
  * Oil & Money <http://oilandmoney.com/>
  * Art Leaders Network <http://nytartleadersnetwork.com/>

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


  * Charles M. Blow <https://www.nytimes.com/column/charles-m-blow>
  * David Brooks <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-brooks>
  * Frank Bruni <https://www.nytimes.com/column/frank-bruni>
  * Roger Cohen <https://www.nytimes.com/column/roger-cohen>
  * Gail Collins <https://www.nytimes.com/column/gail-collins>
  * Ross Douthat <https://www.nytimes.com/column/ross-douthat>
  * Maureen Dowd <https://www.nytimes.com/column/maureen-dowd>
  * Thomas L. Friedman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/thomas-l-friedman>
  * Nicholas Kristof <https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof>
  * Paul Krugman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/paul-krugman>
  * David Leonhardt <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-leonhardt>
  * Andrew Rosenthal <https://www.nytimes.com/column/andrew-rosenthal>
  * Bret Stephens <https://www.nytimes.com/column/bret-stephens>

//Close this modal window


          Edition

  * English <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * 中文 (Chinese) <http://cn.nytimes.com/>
  * Español <https://www.nytimes.com/es/>


          Help

  * FAQ <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/front.html>
  * Contact Us <http://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>


          Type Size

  * A Type size small <javascript:;>
  * A Type size medium <javascript:;>
  * A Type size large <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


  * Edit Profile <javascript:;>
  * My Account <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>
  * My Billing Information
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/get-started/manage-billing?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F17%2Fworld%2Ftrump-tower-india.html>
  * My Saved Items <http://www.nytimes.com/saved>
  * Log Out

//Close this modal window


      Log in


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F17%2Fworld%2Ftrump-tower-india.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Sign up


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Edit Profile


        Your profile is public. It will appear with any comments you
        leave on NYTimes.com

//Close this modal window

