//NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html>
//Sections

// Home

//Search

Skip to content <#story-header> Skip to navigation
<#site-index-navigation> View mobile version
<http://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/02/26/world/americas/panama-trump-hotel-dispute.html>



    The New York Times The New York Times <https://www.nytimes.com/>


            Americas
            <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/americas/index.html>|Tempers
            Flare as Panama Hotel Owners Try to Oust Trump Company

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

//Search
Subscribe Now Log In //0 //Settings
//Close search


    Site Search Navigation

Search NYTimes.com
//Clear this text input

Go

https://nyti.ms/2sTuOdm

 1.


        Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/americas/index.html>

     1.


            Journalist Killed in Mexican State of Veracruz

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/americas/mexico-journalist-killed.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

     2.
        //


            A Low-Profile Engineer Is Set to Take Power in Peru

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/americas/peru-kuczynski-martin-vizcarra.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

     3.
        //


              Matter


            Was a Tiny Mummy in the Atacama an Alien? No, but the Real
            Story Is Almost...

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/science/ata-mummy-alien-chile.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

     4.
        //


            Peru’s President Offers Resignation Over Vote-Buying Scandal

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/21/world/americas/peru-kuczynski-resigns.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

     5.
     6.
        //


            Fearing New Outbreaks, Brazil Will Vaccinate Country Against
            Yellow Fever

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/world/americas/yellow-fever-brazil-vaccinate.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

     7.
        //


            Mystery Surrounds Death of Pennsylvania College Athlete in
            Bermuda

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/us/bermuda-student-mark-dombroski.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

     8.
        //


            Canada Plans to Tighten Gun Reviews and Records

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/world/canada/gun-control.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

     9.
        //


            A Town Quebec Would Rather Forget: The Canada Letter

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/world/canada/quebec-road-trip.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    10.
        //


            In Nafta Talks, U.S. Tries to Limit Junk Food Warning Labels

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/world/americas/nafta-food-labels-obesity.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    11.
        //


            Canada’s Outdoor Rinks Are Melting. So Is a Way of Life.

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/climate/canada-outdoor-rinks.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    12.
        //


            ‘We’re Losing the Fight’: Tuberculosis Batters a Venezuela
            in Crisis

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/world/americas/venezuela-tuberculosis.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    13.


              ScienceTake


            The Amazing Metabolism of Hummingbirds

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/20/science/hummingbirds-fructose-metabolism.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    14.
        //


            White House Bans Venezuela’s Digital Currency and Expands
            Sanctions

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/19/world/americas/trump-venezuela-sanctions-petro.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    15.
        //


            Mike MacDonald, Canadian Stand-Up Star, Is Dead at 63

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/19/obituaries/mike-macdonald-canadian-stand-up-star-is-dead-at-62.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    16.
        //


              The Caribbean Now


            St. Martin After Irma: The Beaches Are Dazzling but There’s
            Work to Do

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/19/travel/st-martin-after-hurricane-irma-.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    17.
        //


              The Caribbean Now


            Smaller Crowds, Quieter Shores as St. John Slowly Recovers

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/19/travel/st-john-hurricane-recovery.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    18.
        //


              The Caribbean Now


            After Maria’s Devastation, Can Dominica Be a Destination Again?

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/19/travel/dominica-hurricane-maria-recovery.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    19.
        //


              The Caribbean Now


            Returning to Vieques

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/19/travel/vieques-hurricane-recovery.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    20.
        //


            In Brazil, 1,000 Protest Murder of Rio de Janeiro Councilwoman

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/18/world/americas/marielle-franco-rio-de-janeiro-protest-brazil.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

    21.
        //


            ‘World Upside Down’: As Trump Pushes Tariffs, Latin America
            Links Up

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/18/world/americas/trump-trade-latin-america.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>

 2.
    Loading...

See next articles

See previous articles


    Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/americas/index.html>


    Site Navigation

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>

  * More


    Site Mobile Navigation

Advertisement

Supported by


      Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/americas/index.html>


  Tempers Flare as Panama Hotel Owners Try to Oust Trump Company

By KIRK SEMPLE <https://www.nytimes.com/by/kirk-semple>FEB. 26, 2018

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1> Share This Page
Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

Photo
//
The Trump International Hotel and Tower in Panama City, third building
from left, in 2011. Credit Arnulfo Franco/Associated Press

MEXICO CITY — A bitter struggle between a Trump Organization hotel
business and the owners of the Panama City hotel that carries the Trump
name escalated on Monday when the Panamanian authorities announced that
they had begun a formal investigation into the dispute.

The country’s Public Ministry said in a brief statement that it was
looking into whether there had been any “punishable conduct” in the
matter. The decision came in response to a complaint filed with the
ministry on Friday accusing Trump executives of illegal “encroachment”
on the property, the ministry’s statement said.

The owners association has been trying for months to dump President
Trump’s company, which manages the property, the Trump International
Hotel and Tower, blaming the Trump company and brand for declining revenues.

The Trump Organization’s involvement in the hotel began well before the
property officially opened in 2011. But Orestes Fintiklis, a Miami-based
investor whose firm bought a majority of the hotel’s units last year,
has led the charge to drive it out. The owners association voted last
year to end its relationship with the Trump company, and the sides
entered into arbitration in October.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

The fight intensified last Thursday, when Mr. Fintiklis, managing
partner of Ithaca Capital Partners, appeared at the property to
hand-deliver termination notices to four managers, The Associated Press
reported.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-2>


    Related Coverage

  *


        With Trump in the White House, the Family Business Takes It Down
        a Notch DEC. 22, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/22/business/trump-family-business-takes-it-down-a-notch.html>


  *


        Why Being Donald Trump Jr., the Businessman, Won’t Be Easy FEB.
        23, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/23/business/donald-trump-jr-trump-organization.html>


  *


        Donald Trump’s Ventures Began With a Lot of Hype. Here’s How
        They Turned Out. OCT. 6, 2016

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/07/us/politics/donald-trump-business-deals.html>


  *


        Frustrations in Colón, Panama, as Economic Growth Skirts By
        MARCH 23, 2013

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/24/world/americas/frustrations-in-colon-panama-as-economic-growth-skirts-by.html>


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-3>

The Trump Organization staff called the police and barred the owners’
group from entering a room containing the building’s computer servers
and closed-circuit television system, The A.P. said. In response, the
news agency reported, the owners’ group shut off power to the room,
which also cut phone lines and internet connections throughout the building.

A legal complaint filed by Mr. Fintiklis accused the Trump team of
improperly destroying documents during the standoff.


    Newsletter Sign Up

Continue reading the main story <#continues-post-newsletter>


      The Interpreter Newsletter

Understand the world with sharp insight and commentary on the major news
stories of the week.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.

Invalid email address. Please re-enter.

You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up

You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services.


Thank you for subscribing.


An error has occurred. Please try again later.


You are already subscribed to this email.

View all New York Times newsletters. <https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters>

  * See Sample
    <http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/sample/the-interpreter?pgtype=subscriptionspage&version=new&contentId=INT&eventName=sample&module=newsletter-sign-up>
  * Privacy Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Opt out or contact us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime

In a statement on Monday, Trump Hotels, a division of the Trump
Organization, accused Mr. Fintiklis of using strong-arm tactics by
deploying “a rogue private security team” to take over the hotel.

Mr. Fintiklis and another owner, the statement said, employed
“thug-like, mob-style tactics, repeatedly attempting to force their way
into Trump Hotels’ offices, infiltrate and disrupt its computer systems
and threatening and intimidating any employee of the hotel that resisted.”

Trump Hotels also said that Mr. Fintiklis, by seeking to drive out the
Trump Organization, had violated the terms of his purchase last year.
Before closing on that deal, which involved 202 of the hotel’s 369
units, Mr. Fintiklis signed an agreement saying “he would not in any way
attempt to interfere with Trump’s management of the hotel or take any
other steps to terminate its management agreement,” the statement said.

The Trump company also seemed to taunt Mr. Fintiklis, suggesting that he
had given up on arbitration because he was annoyed or running out of
money. “Sadly, it now appears as though Mr. Fintiklis has either lost
patience with the pace of the proceedings which he commenced or simply
lacks the financial backing he once claimed he had,” the statement said.

Messages left for Mr. Fintiklis at Ithaca Capital Partners were not
returned.

Since President Trump took office, his name has been removed from hotels
in Toronto
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/27/world/canada/trump-hotel-toronto-name-change.html>
and in the SoHo neighborhood
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/22/business/trump-organization-soho-hotel.html>
of New York, though both changes came through negotiated buyouts and the
Trump Organization did not resist.

The Trump name was also wiped from a set of residential towers on the
West Side of Manhattan after hundreds of tenants signed a petition
demanding its removal. In explaining their decision, the owners said
they sought “to assume a neutral building identity that appeals to all
current and future residents.
<http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/30/realestate/real-estate-trump-brand-tarnished-by-the-election.html>”

Ben Protess contributed reporting from New York.

A version of this article appears in print on February 27, 2018, on Page
A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Testy Fight Overwhelms
Trump Hotel In Panama. Order Reprints <http://www.nytreprints.com/>|
Today's Paper
<http://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>|Subscribe
<http://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp839RF.html?campaignId=48JQY>


Continue reading the main story <#whats-next>

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. *Tell us what you think.*

<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfLW30xgZodF1qRAg80oWEGuDpW-1HHaL0g42G3SmvB2f4lCw/viewform?entry.8537735=https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/26/world/americas/panama-trump-hotel-dispute.html>



  *
  *
  *
  *


    Related Coverage

 1.


        With Trump in the White House, the Family Business Takes It Down
        a Notch DEC. 22, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/22/business/trump-family-business-takes-it-down-a-notch.html>


 2.


        Why Being Donald Trump Jr., the Businessman, Won’t Be Easy FEB.
        23, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/23/business/donald-trump-jr-trump-organization.html>


 3.


        Donald Trump’s Ventures Began With a Lot of Hype. Here’s How
        They Turned Out. OCT. 6, 2016

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/07/us/politics/donald-trump-business-deals.html>


 4.


        Frustrations in Colón, Panama, as Economic Growth Skirts By
        MARCH 23, 2013

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/24/world/americas/frustrations-in-colon-panama-as-economic-growth-skirts-by.html>



    Trending

 1.


        Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html>

 2.


        Why He Kayaked Across the Atlantic at 70 (for the Third Time)

    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/03/22/magazine/voyages-kayaking-across-ocean-at-70.html>

 3.


        Trump’s Lawyer Resigns as President Adopts Aggressive Approach
        in Russia Inquiry

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-dowd-resigns-trump-lawyer.html>

 4.


        Unbecoming a Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html>
 5.


        Matter: Was a Tiny Mummy in the Atacama an Alien? No, but the
        Real Story Is Almost...

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/science/ata-mummy-alien-chile.html>
 6.


        Video Shows Las Vegas Gunman Gambling, Eating Alone and Filling
        His Suite With Guns

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/las-vegas-shooting-stephen-paddock.html>

 7.


        Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
        Donald Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html>

 8.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Cynthia Nixon and the Degradation of Experience

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/cynthia-nixon-experience-governor-ny.html>

 9.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Speaking as a White Male …

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/speaking-as-a-white-male.html>

10.


        How the Las Vegas Gunman Planned a Massacre, in 7 Days of Video

    <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/100000005794914/las-vegas-gunman-planned-massacre.html>


View More Trending Stories » <https://www.nytimes.com/trending>


    What's Next

Loading...

//Close this overlay


Go to previous
Go to next

Loading...

Go to Home Page » <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index The New York Times The New York Times
    <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index Navigation


      News

  * World <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


      Opinion

  * Today's Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html>
  * Op-Ed Columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>
  * Video: Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>


      Arts

  * Today's Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Books <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Video: Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>


      Living

  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>
  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Weddings & Celebrations
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>


      Listings & More

  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP>

  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage My Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * NYTCo <http://www.nytco.com/>


      Subscribe

  * Subscribe
  * // Home Delivery <https://www.nytimes.com/hdleftnav>
  * // Digital Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/digitalleftnav>
  * // Crossword
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/games/lp897H9.html?campaignId=49W8Y>


  * Email Newsletters <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newsletters>
  * Alerts <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/mem/tnt.html>
  * Gift Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/giftleftnav>
  * Group Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/corporateleftnav>
  * Education Rate <https://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav>

  * Mobile Applications
    <https://www.nytimes.com/services/mobile/index.html>
  * Replica Edition
    <http://eedition.nytimes.com/cgi-bin/signup.cgi?cc=37FYY>


    Site Information Navigation

  * © 2018The New York Times Company
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html>

  * Home <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * Search <http://query.nytimes.com/search/sitesearch/#/>
  * Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com
    <mailto:accessibility@nytimes.com>. We would love to hear from you.
  * Contact Us
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/infoservdirectory.html>
  * Work With Us <http://www.nytco.com/careers>
  * Advertise <http://nytmediakit.com/>
  * Your Ad Choices
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp>
  * Privacy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Terms of Service
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html>
  * Terms of Sale
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html>


    Site Information Navigation

  * Site Map <http://spiderbites.nytimes.com/>
  * Help <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter/sitehelp.html>
  * Site Feedback <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html>
  * Subscriptions
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW>


Go to the previous story


    Journalist Killed in Mexican State of Veracruz

Go to the next story
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/world/americas/mexico-journalist-killed.html?ribbon-ad-idx=4&rref=world/americas>



      advertisement

Continue »

//Close this modal window


  * Africa <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/africa>
  * Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/americas>
  * Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia>
  * Australia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/australia>
  * Europe <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe>
  * Middle East <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast>

  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Elections <http://elections.nytimes.com/>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Events <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>

  * DealBook <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/dealbook/index.html>
  * Economy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/economy>
  * Energy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/energy-environment>
  * Markets <http://markets.on.nytimes.com/>
  * Media <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/media>
  * Entrepreneurship
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/smallbusiness>
  * Your Money <https://www.nytimes.com/section/your-money>
  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>

  * Op-Ed Columnists
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>

  * Personal Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology/personaltech>

  * Climate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate>
  * Space & Cosmos <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science/space>

  * Well <https://www.nytimes.com/section/well>
  * Money & Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health/policy>
  * Health Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/index.html>

  * Baseball <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/baseball>
  * Basketball: College
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaabasketball>
  * Basketball: N.B.A. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball>
  * Football: College <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaafootball>
  * Football: N.F.L. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/football>
  * Golf <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/golf>
  * Hockey <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/hockey>
  * Soccer <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/soccer>
  * Tennis <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/tennis>

  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Watching <https://www.nytimes.com/watching>

  * Best Sellers <https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/>
  * By the Book <https://www.nytimes.com/column/by-the-book>
  * The Book Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review>
  * Book Review Podcast
    <https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast>

  * Men's Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/mens-style>
  * On the Runway <https://www.nytimes.com/column/on-the-runway>
  * Weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>

  * Cooking <http://cooking.nytimes.com/>
  * Restaurant Search <https://www.nytimes.com/reviews/dining>

  * The High End <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/the-high-end>
  * Commercial <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate/commercial>
  * iPhone App
    <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/nytimesrealestate/id337316535>
  * Find A Home <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/find-a-home>
  * Mortgage Calculator
    <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/mortgage-calculator>
  * My Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/my-real-estate>
  * List Your Home <https://realestateads.nytimes.com/>

  * U.S. & Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us-politics>
  * International <https://www.nytimes.com/video/world>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/video/n-y-region>
  * Op-Docs <https://www.nytimes.com/video/op-docs>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>
  * Times Documentaries <https://www.nytimes.com/video/times-documentaries>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/video/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/video/technology>
  * Culture <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>
  * Style <https://www.nytimes.com/video/style>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/video/t-magazine>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/video/health>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/video/dining-and-wine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/video/travel>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/video/sports>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/video/real-estate>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/video/science>

  * DealBook <http://nytdealbookconference.com/>
  * ClimateTECH <http://nytclimatetech.com/>
  * Global Strategy Summit <http://nytglobalstrategy.com/>
  * International Luxury Conference <http://nytluxury.com/>
  * Luxury Travel <http://nytluxurytravel.com/>
  * New Work Summit <http://newworksummit.com/>
  * Higher Ed Leaders Forum <http://nythigheredleaders.com/>
  * Athens Democracy Forum <http://athensdemocracyforum.com/>
  * Oil & Money <http://oilandmoney.com/>
  * Art Leaders Network <http://nytartleadersnetwork.com/>

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


  * Charles M. Blow <https://www.nytimes.com/column/charles-m-blow>
  * David Brooks <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-brooks>
  * Frank Bruni <https://www.nytimes.com/column/frank-bruni>
  * Roger Cohen <https://www.nytimes.com/column/roger-cohen>
  * Gail Collins <https://www.nytimes.com/column/gail-collins>
  * Ross Douthat <https://www.nytimes.com/column/ross-douthat>
  * Maureen Dowd <https://www.nytimes.com/column/maureen-dowd>
  * Thomas L. Friedman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/thomas-l-friedman>
  * Nicholas Kristof <https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof>
  * Paul Krugman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/paul-krugman>
  * David Leonhardt <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-leonhardt>
  * Andrew Rosenthal <https://www.nytimes.com/column/andrew-rosenthal>
  * Bret Stephens <https://www.nytimes.com/column/bret-stephens>

//Close this modal window


          Edition

  * English <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * 中文 (Chinese) <http://cn.nytimes.com/>
  * Español <https://www.nytimes.com/es/>


          Help

  * FAQ <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/front.html>
  * Contact Us <http://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>


          Type Size

  * A Type size small <javascript:;>
  * A Type size medium <javascript:;>
  * A Type size large <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


  * Edit Profile <javascript:;>
  * My Account <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>
  * My Billing Information
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/get-started/manage-billing?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F26%2Fworld%2Famericas%2Fpanama-trump-hotel-dispute.html>
  * My Saved Items <http://www.nytimes.com/saved>
  * Log Out

//Close this modal window


      Log in


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F26%2Fworld%2Famericas%2Fpanama-trump-hotel-dispute.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Sign up


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Edit Profile


        Your profile is public. It will appear with any comments you
        leave on NYTimes.com

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Complete your registration for a free New York Times account.
        Registered users can:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Log in to:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F02%2F26%2Fworld%2Famericas%2Fpanama-trump-hotel-dispute.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window

