//NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html>
//Sections
//Home

//Search Skip to content <#story-header> Skip to navigation
<#site-index-navigation> View mobile version
<http://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/business/offshore-drilling-trump-administration.html>



The New York Times The New York Times <https://www.nytimes.com/>


Business Day <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/index.html>


            Business Day
            <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/index.html>|Trump
            Rollbacks Target Offshore Rules ‘Written With Human Blood’

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

/

/ 566
//Close search


    Site Search Navigation

Search NYTimes.com
//Clear this text input

Go

https://nyti.ms/2Gcoh0x


    Site Navigation

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>

  * More


    Site Mobile Navigation

Cover Photo
Platforms south of Port Fourchon, La., the busiest spot in the Gulf of
Mexico for oil and gas production. Credit Chris Carmichael for The New
York Times


  Trump Rollbacks Target
  Offshore Rules ‘Written
  With Human Blood’

Drillers seek to gain from an easing of Obama-era safety and environmental
regulations that were adopted after the Deepwater Horizon disaster
killed 11 people.

By ERIC LIPTON <https://www.nytimes.com/by/eric-lipton>MARCH 10, 2018

PORT FOURCHON, La. — A dozen miles off the coast, on a rusty, aging
platform, workers in hard hats and overalls spend their days extracting
oil and gas from the ocean floor before retreating at night into tiny
weather-beaten steel cubes that act as dorms.

The platform, owned by a Houston-based energy company that until
recently was bankrupt, has none of the grandeur — or profits — of the
deep-sea structures over 100 miles offshore that are operated by
international giants like Exxon Mobil and Chevron.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>
Supported by
Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-2>

skip ad
An oil and gas platform run by Houston-based Energy XXI sits in the
Gulf, about a dozen miles off the coast, in an area first drilled in the
1950s.

MARCH 10, 2018

Chris Carmichael for The New York Times

But the company, Energy XXI <http://www.energyxxi.com/>, and other
struggling operators in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico are
beneficiaries of the Trump administration’s efforts to increase offshore
production here — in large part by upending financial, environmental and
safety regulations that the companies oppose.

While attention has been focused on President Trump’s disputed decision
in January to reverse drilling restrictions
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/04/climate/trump-offshore-drilling.html> in
nearly all United States coastal waters, the administration has also
pursued a rollback of Obama-era regulations in the Gulf. Those rules
include safety measures put in place after the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon rig in 2010
<http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/26/us/26spill.html?pagewanted=all>, a
disaster that killed 11 people and resulted in the largest marine oil
spill in United States’ drilling history.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-3>

Smaller oil and gas companies, many backed by Wall Street and private
equity firms, say they need the relief to survive financially, and the
top safety official at the Interior Department appointed by Mr. Trump
has appeared an enthusiastic ally.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-4>


    Related Coverage

  *
    // graphic


        Trump Would Open Nearly All U.S. Waters to Drilling. But Will
        They Drill? JAN. 23, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/01/23/climate/trump-offshore-oil-drilling.html>


  *


        Trump Moves to Open Nearly All Offshore Waters to Drilling JAN.
        4, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/04/climate/trump-offshore-drilling.html>


  *


        U.S. to Roll Back Safety Rules Created After Deepwater Horizon
        Spill DEC. 28, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/28/us/trump-offshore-drilling.html>

  *


        BP to Take $1.7 Billion Charge Over Deepwater Horizon Spill JAN.
        16, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/16/business/dealbook/bp-oil-spill-deepwater-horizon.html>


  *


          TRUMP RULES


        The Deep Industry Ties of Trump’s Deregulation Teams JULY 11, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/11/business/the-deep-industry-ties-of-trumps-deregulation-teams.html>


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-5>

“Help is on the way, help is on the way,” the official, Scott Angelle,
said in September at a gathering in Lafayette, La., of oil and gas
executives from so-called independent companies, which focus on drilling
alone rather than the extended drilling-to-gas-station operations of
bigger competitors.

But an analysis of federal inspection data by The New York Times found
that several of the independent companies seeking the rollback,
including Energy XXI, had been cited for workplace safety violations in
recent years at a rate much higher than the industry average. Their
offshore platforms suffer in some cases from years of poor maintenance,
as well as equipment failures or metal fatigue on aging devices, records
show.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-6>
Photo
//
Fireboats responding to Deepwater Horizon, a rig that exploded in 2010,
killing 11 people. Afterward, the Obama administration imposed a
temporary moratorium on new offshore drilling. Credit U.S. Coast Guard,
via Reuters

In addition, there was a string of serious environmental and safety
episodes in the last six months involving independent operators,
including the death in February of a worker
<https://www.bsee.gov/newsroom/latest-news/statements-and-releases/press-releases/bsee-responds-to-platform-fatality-in-gulf>
who was removing firefighting equipment from a platform about 30 miles
offshore, and an oil spill in October
<https://www.bsee.gov/newsroom/latest-news/statements-and-releases/press-releases/oil-release-in-the-gulf-of-mexico>
that is considered the largest since the Deepwater Horizon event,
according to Interior Department records.

“These regulations were written with human blood,” said Lillian
Espinoza-Gala, a former offshore worker who now serves as an industry
safety consultant and opposes easing protections. “The only way we can
honor those who lost their lives is for us to learn how to do this in
the correct way.”

But Mr. Angelle has close personal and recent ties to the oil and gas
industry, particularly the smaller companies seeking his intervention.
Earlier, as a state official, he worked with them to end a temporary
moratorium on new offshore drilling imposed by the Obama administration
after the Deepwater Horizon accident.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-8>


  *
  *
  *
  *

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-9>


    Fuels’ Sprawling Footprint in the Gulf

From Texas to Alabama, the Gulf of Mexico is host to 27,000 miles of
federally regulated pipelines, and about 2,000 oil and gas platforms.

Miss.

ALA.

Fla.

Gulfport

La.

Platform

Port Arthur

Houston

New Orleans

Pipeline

Galveston

Tex.

Port Fourchon

Corpus Christi

CONTINENTAL

SLOPE

gulf of mexico

abyssal

plain

100 miles

Miss.

ALA.

Fla.

Active platform

Pipeline

La.

Port Arthur

Houston

New Orleans

Tex.

Galveston

Port

Fourchon

Corpus Christi

CONTINENTAL

SLOPE

gulf of mexico

abyssal

plain

100 miles

Miss.

ALA.

flA.

la.

Platform

Pipeline

New Orleans

Port Arthur

Houston

Tex.

Corpus

Christi

CONTINENTAL

SLOPE

gulf of mexico

abyssal

plain

100 miles

Platform

Miss.

la.

Pipeline

Tex.

Gulf of

mexico

200 miles

By Jugal K. Patel | Source: Bureau of Ocean Energy Management

Now he is the top official at the Interior Department’s Bureau of Safety
and Environmental Enforcement, a division created under President Obama
<https://www.doi.gov/news/pressreleases/Salazar-Divides-MMSs-Three-Conflicting-Missions>
to toughen safety standards and enforcement in offshore drilling because
of problems exposed by Deepwater Horizon. Mr. Angelle spent his first
months on the job, records show, traveling between Washington, Texas and
his native Louisiana to meet with executives at most of the top offshore
oil companies, including some repeatedly cited for safety violations.

During the gatherings, most of which were behind closed doors, he asked
for suggestions about how federal safety and environmental rules should
be rewritten. Sometimes he offered up his cellphone number, urging
attendees to call rather than send emails or text messages, which could
be subject to public records requests.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-10>

“Not all the good ideas in America come over the banks of the Potomac
River,” Mr. Angelle said at a meeting in Houston in September that was
sponsored by an affiliate of the American Petroleum Institute, the large
industry lobbying group, and attended by a reporter. “To the degree this
industry wants to be part of the discussion, tell me where you want me
to be and we will be there,” he said, evoking applause.

Mr. Angelle’s leveraging of his role as a safety official to help
channel the industry’s financial concerns and loosen regulations
represents a sharp departure from his predecessors at the agency, which
include a former Coast Guard vice admiral and a former federal prosecutor.

“What appears to be going on is a redefinition of the agency’s mission,”
said Michael R. Bromwich
<http://www.bromwichgroup.com/about-us/michael-r-bromwich/>, a former
federal prosecutor and inspector general at the Justice Department who
became the first head
<https://www.bsee.gov/newsroom/latest-news/statements-and-releases/press-releases/secretary-salazar-names-michael-r>
of the bureau in May 2010
<https://www.doi.gov/news/pressreleases/Salazar-Divides-MMSs-Three-Conflicting-Missions>.
“This is a safety and environmental protection agency. It is not part of
the agency’s mission or mandate to increase production of oil or gas.
That is inappropriate.”

Mr. Angelle declined to be interviewed for this article. But in a
written statement, he disputed that his agency had backed off its
commitment to safety. “We must never have another Deepwater Horizon or
anything close to it,” Mr. Angelle said.

An agency spokeswoman said that all Americans benefited from his efforts.

“The work we are doing in BSEE benefits the entire nation, and we are
supporting the president’s objective of safely achieving energy
dominance in order to contribute to national security, economic security
and energy security,” said Eileen Angelico, the spokeswoman, adding,
“The fact that Director Angelle deeply understands the industry we
regulate is a good thing.”

The agency is starting an enforcement effort that will focus inspectors
on platforms with the most frequent problems, reducing paperwork
requirements so they can spend more time on checking equipment.

But Mr. Angelle’s speeches often center on helping the oil and gas
industry cut costs and grow their businesses. And agency documents
suggest moves he has already made could save the industry more than $1.3
billion in compliance costs over the next decade.

The Interior Department has joined the effort more broadly. Last year,
the department suspended a requirement
<https://www.boem.gov/note02172017/> imposed on Gulf rig owners, a
change that will save them hundreds of millions
<http://www.offsnet.com/gulf-of-mexico/item/download/4_ff6ef6b0f642912d7f1d1fb71eb35f12>
of dollars. The rule required owners to buy additional bonds or provide
other assurance that they could cover the costs of removing rigs once
they stopped producing.

Photo
//
Lillian Espinoza-Gala, a former offshore worker who now serves as a
safety consultant, at home in Lafayette, La. “These regulations were
written with human blood,” she said of workplace protections. Credit
Bryan Tarnowski for The New York Times

The rule was meant to keep taxpayers from having to pick up the tab
<https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-16-40>, but a collection of operators
last year — with help from high-profile lobbyists like former Senator
Trent Lott
<https://www.squirepattonboggs.com/en/professionals/l/lott-trent> of
Mississippi — convinced the Trump administration that the requirement
was too onerous. The change has mostly benefited independents like
Energy XXI.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-11>

Separately, the administration has reduced the royalties
<https://www.boem.gov/note07062017/> independent companies pay when
drilling on new leases on the continental shelf, the shallow area of the
Gulf before the ocean floor drops more than a mile deep.

And it has eased up on deadlines
<https://www.bsee.gov/newsroom/latest-news/statements-and-releases/press-releases/bsee-rule-allows-industry-more>
for the removal of unproductive or damaged platforms, a change that also
primarily benefits the independents, as they own wells on the shelf that
in many cases are decades old and will soon need to be repaired or
demolished.

The rollbacks have been popular across Louisiana, which is home to
dozens of companies that serve offshore operations and is where Mr.
Angelle grew up.

“Too much damn regulation in the world,” said John Girard, 72, a
neighbor of Mr. Angelle’s from Breaux Bridge.


        Foraging for ‘Forgotten Assets’

In a presentation to Wall Street analysts, Houston-based Renaissance
Offshore, one of the Gulf’s independent operators, called its business
plan “a targeted acquire and exploit strategy
<http://www.ipaa.org/meetings/ppt/2014PCC/Renaissance_Soine_Jeff.pdf>.”

While major oil companies had given up on shallow-water drilling in
favor of bigger prizes farther offshore, Renaissance was “happy to
assume control of forgotten assets with bypassed reserves on the
continental shelf,” the presentation said.

Photo
//
Workers boarding an Energy XXI platform. The company has been cited for
safety violations at a rate much higher than the industry average.
Credit Chris Carmichael for The New York Times

When oil was selling for $100 a barrel, it was relatively easy for
independent companies to find private equity firms willing to invest in
buying the aging platforms and deploying new technologies — such as
horizontal drilling — to tap reserves that Exxon Mobil and others had
left behind.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-12>

The “used cars” of the offshore oil patch were becoming profitable
fleets again for companies like Renaissance
<http://renaissanceoffshore.com/>, Energy XXI and Fieldwood Energy
<https://www.fieldwoodenergy.com/>, which often bought up hundreds of
platforms at a time as the major companies moved to deeper, more
lucrative waters.

Even as the price of oil dropped precipitously in recent years, the
purchases continued, including a move last July by Cantium
<https://www.cantium.us/>, a Louisiana start-up, to buy 300 active
wells, along with 152 platforms <https://www.cantium.us/assets> and
other offshore structures, from Chevron, one of the last major oil
companies to leave shallow waters.

“We see tremendous potential,” said Mark Ian Smithard, Cantium’s chief
operating officer. “We see changes taking place in the regulatory
environment, and we are working with our industry partners to make sure
they go through.”

But federal safety inspection records hint at the difficulties many of
the independents have faced, and help explain why regulatory changes by
the Trump administration are seen as so crucial to the shallow-water
industry’s survival.

Approximately 240
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4405678-Offshore-Docs.html#document/p27/a409958>platforms
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4405678-Offshore-Docs.html#document/p27/a409958>
in the shallow waters of the Gulf, serving over 2,000 oil and gas wells
as of last year, are listed by the Interior Department as “i
<https://www.bsee.gov/what-we-do/environmental-focuses/decommissioning/idle-iron>dle
<https://www.bsee.gov/what-we-do/environmental-focuses/decommissioning/idle-iron>i
<https://www.bsee.gov/what-we-do/environmental-focuses/decommissioning/idle-iron>ron
<https://www.bsee.gov/what-we-do/environmental-focuses/decommissioning/idle-iron>.”
This means that they are severely damaged, not operating and no longer
economically viable, and that they pose environmental and safety
hazards. Most of the platforms are controlled by independent companies
like Energy XXI and are decades old.

Even as safety has improved for the industry as a whole, some
independent operators have lagged significantly behind, the records show.

Renaissance, which produced 1.5 million barrels last year
<https://www.data.boem.gov/Production/Files/Rank%20File%20Oil%202017.pdf>,
as well as 3.8 billion cubic feet of gas, received 47
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4405678-Offshore-Docs.html#document/p119/a409955>safety
warnings or citations
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4405678-Offshore-Docs.html#document/p119/a409955>
in 48 inspections in 2017. Among these were 20 orders to immediately
shut down malfunctioning or unsafe equipment on offshore platforms.
Overall, Renaissance had a violation ratio that was nearly twice the
average, according to a Times analysis of agency data obtained through a
public records request.

There were two accidents on Renaissance platforms during that period,
including a fire
<https://www.bsee.gov/sites/bsee.gov/files/ss-266-a-renaissance-offshore-5-jan-2017.pdf>that
erupted
<https://www.bsee.gov/sites/bsee.gov/files/ss-266-a-renaissance-offshore-5-jan-2017.pdf>
48 miles offshore. Two workers jumped into the Gulf after concluding
that the firefighting equipment on board was essentially useless, like
“putting water on a hot grease fire,” the records show. Crew members
were rescued by a passing boat after they got into life rafts.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-13>

In the past 18 months, the company was also issued a violation notice by
the Environmental Protection Agency for not complying with a permit
<https://ofmpub.epa.gov/apex/tocar/f?p=124:40:::NO:40:P40_ATTACH_ID:4154> that
allowed it to dump wastewater, and by the Transportation Department for
failing to have qualified staff inspect its 32 miles of underwater
pipeline
<https://primis.phmsa.dot.gov/comm/reports/enforce/documents/420172001W/420172001W_Warning%20Letter_04052017_text.pdf>,
federal records show.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-14>


    //Recent Comments


Eleanor

March 11, 2018

As usual profits (or at least cash flow) before the environment. When
another monster accident happens the companies will whine and insist...


etaeng

March 11, 2018

I don't think that the Deepwater Horizon oil spill was the largest in
marine history.In June 1979, an oil well in the Bay of Campeche...


Snively Whiplash IV

March 11, 2018

The institutions of democracy are under attack, which include the EPA
and Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement as government’s...

  * See All Comments

Photo
//
As major oil companies moved drilling efforts into the deep sea,
independent operators bought up aging platforms offshore. Credit Chris
Carmichael for The New York Times

Energy XXI, which emerged from Chapter 11
<http://ir.energyxxi.com/releasedetail.cfm?releaseid=1005886> bankruptcy
at the end of 2016, was found to have 207 safety violations during 337
inspections. Conditions were so serious that inspectors moved nine times
to shut down entire oil platforms, not simply broken components they found.

Last year, the company paid more than $1.1 million in fines
<https://www.bsee.gov/sites/bsee.gov/files/cp-paid-fy2017.pdf> for four
different episodes. In one case, it abandoned two offshore wells without
ensuring that they had been properly plugged, allowing natural gas to
bubble up from the ocean floor.

In 2017, the Interior Department conducted four separate investigations
into accidents on Energy XXI platforms (out of 46 conducted across the
entire Gulf). One of the inquiries looked at a
<https://www.bsee.gov/sites/bsee.gov/files/st-28-energy-xxi-oct-11-2017.pdf>fire
that broke out in October
<https://www.bsee.gov/sites/bsee.gov/files/st-28-energy-xxi-oct-11-2017.pdf>
just six miles off the coast, in 49 feet of water, when a gas compressor
built in 1979 ruptured and melted.

The most serious offenses involved Black Elk Energy Offshore Operations,
which was convicted in August of eight felony violations
<https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/black-elk-energy-offshore-operations-llc-convicted-worker-safety-and-clean-water-act>
related to a platform explosion that killed three workers and injured
several others. It has since gone out of business, one of at least 19
oil and gas companies that have operated in the Gulf to go bankrupt
since 2015.

Representatives from Energy XXI declined repeated requests for comment.

A spokesman for Renaissance said the company had already moved to
improve its compliance record this year. “As a company we not only
adhere to industry best practices but look to exceed on them in every
way,” Renaissance said in a written statement.

Ridgelake Energy
<https://www.louisianaregistry.org/ridgelake-energy-inc>, a small
company operating in shallow waters, also had a large number of reported
violations last year. Its owner, William M. Hines, blamed the run-down
condition of equipment he acquired from one of the Gulf’s many bankrupt
operators.

“There is a lot of broken stuff out there,” he said. “We are working to
get all this back into shape.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-16>

Concern among enforcement officers has been growing because some of the
independent companies are looking to extend operations toward the Gulf’s
deep waters, where the risks are even greater.

On the same day in February that it filed for bankruptcy
<https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/fieldwood-energy-files-prepackaged-chapter-11-cases-and-announces-gulf-of-mexico-acquisition-300599645.html>,
Fieldwood announced that it was going to acquire $700 million in oil
wells from Noble Energy, which is leaving the offshore area to focus on
shale drilling on land. With that purchase, Fieldwood hopes to start
major explorations in deep water, even as it faces scrutiny for
violations on the shelf.

A spokesman for Fieldwood said the company was already operating in deep
water and would be “be much stronger financially when we come out of
this restructuring.”

Lars Herbst
<https://www.bsee.gov/sites/bsee.gov/files/career-amp-employment/biographies/lars-herbst-bio.pdf>,
the Gulf director for the Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement, warned offshore operators at a briefing last year that
certain kinds of shutdown had doubled. He attributed the spike in such
orders, which involve an “unsafe situation” that “poses an immediate
danger to the entire facility or personnel,” to a large number of
“financially at-risk companies.” Those businesses, he said, operated 449
of the 2,104 active facilities in the Gulf.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-17>
Photo
//
Left, a painting depicting the oil industry at the Petroleum Club in
Lafayette. Right, a sculpture of an oil derrick at the club, which was
started as a social group by men in the industry. Credit Bryan Tarnowski
for The New York Times

More recently, the agency conducted a two-day inspection blitz
<https://www.bsee.gov/sites/bsee.gov/files/safety-alerts//safety-alert-328-gas-release-hazards-identified-by-bsee.pdf>
involving gas leaks on offshore platforms, many of them owned by
independent operators in shallow waters. Inspectors found that 17
percent of the 36 platforms and well operations they visited had “oil
and gas accumulations,” industry lingo for leaks that can lead to fires,
agency records show. Eight facilities either lacked operating gas
detectors or had other problems with their leak-detection systems.

“It was quite concerning,” said Jason Mathews
<https://www.bsee.gov/newsroom/feature-stories/we-are-bsee/people-profiles/jason-mathews>,
the agency’s chief for safety management in the Gulf.


        A Native Son Leads the Charge

The Cajundome in Lafayette is well known as a venue for college
basketball games, country music concerts and monster truck shows. But
for Mr. Angelle, 56, it is associated with an enduring alliance he
forged with the offshore oil and gas industry nearly eight years ago.

Photo
//
Scott Angelle, second from right, leads the Interior Department’s safety
agency. He has long had ties to the oil and gas industry. Credit Ilana
Panich-Linsman for The New York Times

In July 2010, just three months after the Deepwater Horizon accident,
Mr. Angelle, then lieutenant governor, stood in the arena
<http://theind.com/article-6330-Thousands-rail-against-moratorium-at-dome-rally.html>
before more than 10,000 locals, offshore workers and industry
executives. He promised to pressure the Obama administration to end the
moratorium on new offshore drilling, which had deeply angered
communities that depended on it. The ban was lifted that October.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-19>

“Enough is enough,” he said with a thick Cajun accent
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0TbQnEzYgBs> in a rousing speech laced
with rhymes and applause lines. “And it’s time to quit punishing
innocent American workers to achieve some unrealistic political agenda.”

One of nine children whose father owned a local Ford dealership before
going into Louisiana politics himself, Mr. Angelle turned the arena on
fire by ticking off the names of local families.


    Newsletter Sign Up

Continue reading the main story <#continues-post-newsletter>


      Sign up for the all-new DealBook newsletter

Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make
sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who
shape them.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.

Invalid email address. Please re-enter.

You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up

You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services.


Thank you for subscribing.


An error has occurred. Please try again later.


You are already subscribed to this email.

View all New York Times newsletters. <https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters>

  * See Sample
    <http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/sample/dealbook?pgtype=subscriptionspage&version=business&contentId=DK&eventName=sample&module=newsletter-sign-up>
  * Privacy Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Opt out or contact us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime

“This moratorium is not hurting the stockholders of BP, or Exxon or
Chevron,” he declared. “This moratorium is hurting the Cheramies, and
the Calaises, and the Dupuises, and the Robins, and the Boudreauxs and
the Thibodeauxs!”

Mr. Angelle knew his audience well: After graduating from the University
of Louisiana at Lafayette, he started his career by scouting for onshore
drilling sites. He eventually went on to lead the state agency charged
with regulating the oil and gas industry, and made a series of appeals
to Interior Department officials — some at the safety agency he now runs
— to press the federal government to soften its response to the
Deepwater Horizon accident.

His ties to the industry are also financial. Mr. Angelle was paid $1
million to serve for four years on the board of directors at Sunoco
Logistics, a pipeline company. And when he ran unsuccessfully for
governor
<http://thehayride.com/2015/03/angelle-washingtons-war-on-energy/> in
2015, he benefited from large contributions from the industry. One of
these was a $1.25 million donation
<http://ethics.la.gov/CampaignFinanceSearch/ShowEForm.aspx?ReportID=50770>
to Louisiana Rising
<https://www.facebook.com/Louisiana-Rising-PAC-400434740124137/>, a
political action committee that backed him
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2qQS_sgPDo>, from a top executive at
an oil and gas company that then had hundreds of Gulf platforms. Mr.
Angelle promised voters that he was “fighting for
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4405678-Offshore-Docs.html#document/p7/a409843>Louisiana’s
energy industry
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4405678-Offshore-Docs.html#document/p7/a409843>”
in one advertisement.

After being appointed to his current post, Mr. Angelle made a return
visit to the Cajundome last September as part of his outreach to oil and
gas executives. Mr. Angelle, agency officials note, has sold off any
industry stock assets to comply with federal conflict-of-interest rules.

His job was new, but his message was familiar: How can I help your
companies thrive? In addition to safety enforcement, he made it clear
that he viewed his role as helping the industry grow.

“One of the things that we want to do is help unlock the next wave of
investment into the Gulf of Mexico,” he said at the time
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ga5-zZXYpo>. “That is what we want to do.”

The next day, at a meeting with executives in Houston, Mr. Angelle
acknowledged that efforts to assist the industry could be hampered if
safety problems persisted.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-20>

“At the end, we are only as strong as the weakest link,” he said. “And
if we have someone who is a bad actor, you owe it to yourselves, you owe
it to your families, you owe it to the industry, you owe it to America,
to call them out.”

Even before this gathering, the Trump administration had signed off on
the first rollback of industry regulations, including the one pertaining
to the removal of unproductive offshore platforms. The lobbying effort
<https://gulfenergyalliance.org/about-us/> on that rule was funded in
part by companies, like Renaissance and Energy XXI, that were plagued by
safety violations. It involved both Mr. Lott and his partner, John
Breaux, a Democrat and former senator from Louisiana, according to a
disclosure
<https://soprweb.senate.gov/index.cfm?event=getFilingDetails&filingID=FBCE7004-D815-44C9-B66C-DF78B0B10F8C&filingTypeID=60>
report.

The rule had taken effect late in the Obama administration after
government auditors estimated that it would cost
<https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-16-40>nearly $40 billion
<https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-16-40> to remove the old wells, but
determined that oil companies had issued just $2.9 billion worth of
bonds to cover the expense.

The Obama administration’s remedy <https://www.boem.gov/press07142016/>
was to require companies to buy more bonds, or provide other financial
guarantees, to prove they had the capacity to pay for the removal of the
wells. The industry’s reaction was swift.

“The Louisiana economy needs a kick start, not a kick in the teeth,”
Gifford Briggs <http://loga.la/loga/loga-staff/gifford-briggs/>, the top
lobbyist and vice president at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association,
wrote in 2016
<http://thehayride.com/2016/12/briggs-will-trump-help-independent-operators-in-the-gulf-of-mexico/>.

The problems associated with the old platforms can be severe, as seen in
an oil leak
<https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/viewer?mid=1fRax2LgovPCovhwBDJmHWdyCZx8&hl=en&ll=28.93800700000004%2C-88.97089&z=9>
12 miles off the Louisiana coast that has been spreading a sheen across
the Gulf for more than a decade. The leak, from a collapsed platform
once operated by the now defunct Taylor Energy Company
<http://www.taylorenergy.com/>, could continue for 100 years unless it
is properly sealed, the safety agency has estimated
<https://www.bsee.gov/newsroom/library/incident-archive/taylor-energy-mississippi-canyon/ongoing-response-efforts>.

Next, the oil and gas companies pushed to unravel a major safety
requirement known as the well-control rule, which regulates methods used
to drill new oil and gas wells — and prevent explosions.

Photo
//
The Deepwater Horizon explosion resulted in the largest marine oil spill
in drilling history. Credit Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times

It took six years after the Deepwater Horizon accident to enact the
rule, a process that involved thousands of hours of consultations with
industry experts and public safety officials, according to Mr. Bromwich,
the former federal prosecutor who helped start the process.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-21>

The new rule, which took effect in July 2016
<https://www.bsee.gov/newsroom/latest-news/statements-and-releases/press-releases/well-control-rule-set-to-take-effect>,
required additional inspections of devices called blowout preventers,
the equipment that failed during the Deepwater Horizon disaster. To
prevent accidents, another provision required oil and gas platforms to
shut
<https://www.bsee.gov/guidance-and-regulations/regulations/well-control-rule/250723>
down temporarily
<https://www.bsee.gov/guidance-and-regulations/regulations/well-control-rule/250723>
when so-called lift boats positioned themselves for repair work.

At a meeting Mr. Angelle called in September, industry officials
detailed their objections
<https://www.bsee.gov/guidance-and-regulations/regulations/well-control-rule/public%20forum>
while members of staff — some of whom helped write the rule — sat taking
notes. Separately, Mr. Angelle held private meetings with
representatives from the same companies, according to a copy of his
calender, obtained through a public records request.

“It is mostly knee-jerk reactions that came out of Washington,” Craig
Castille of Stone Energy said in prepared remarks that called for more
than a dozen changes to the regulation. “The pendulum has swung way too
far to the right.”

Two days later, Mr. Angelle directed his top aides
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4405678-Offshore-Docs.html#document/p73/a409929>
to prepare documents explaining how the agency had justified the
requirement, according to emails obtained through the public records
request.

“Please highlight the sections around the drilling margin and any
discussion on blowout preventer,” Mr. Angelle wrote. “This will help
inform me.”

In late December, Mr. Angelle sent the White House a proposal to
overhaul the well-control rule, estimating that oil companies would save
$986 million in the coming decade. The proposal included many changes
requested by the industry, such as loosening inspection requirements for
blowout preventers and eliminating the need to shut down operations as
lift boats approached.

“Oil and natural gas operators raised concerns about certain regulatory
provisions that impose undue burdens on their industry, but do not
significantly enhance worker safety or environmental protection,” said
the confidential draft
<https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4405678-Offshore-Docs.html#document/p60/a409922>,
a copy of which was obtained by The Times.

Though the proposal is undergoing a review before the revisions are made
public, the White House has made clear that it welcomes the effort. A
White House spokeswoman declined to comment.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-22>

Also in December, the safety bureau moved to ease requirements on the
maintenance of offshore oil and gas platforms, cutting costs by
anadditional $228
<https://www.bsee.gov/newsroom/latest-news/statements-and-releases/press-releases/bsee-proposes-revisions-to-production>million
over the next decade
<https://www.bsee.gov/newsroom/latest-news/statements-and-releases/press-releases/bsee-proposes-revisions-to-production>.

To some longtime residents and activists, the changes, and the hundreds
of millions of dollars they will save for companies, are not worth the
possible trade-offs in safety and environmental protections.

Photo
//
Don LeBoeuf, right, and crew members awaiting a boat to an Energy XXI
platform 60 miles offshore. Credit Chris Carmichael for The New York Times

“It’s always the workers who pay,” said Scott Eustis
<http://healthygulf.org/who-we-are/staff-0> of the Gulf Restoration
Network, an environmental group. “And Gulf Coast workers will pay with
their bodies, their lives, their children, who will grow up without
fathers.”

Mr. Bromwich, like other former officials who spent years drafting the
safety rules, lamented the move to weaken them.

“It’s just a terrible signal to the industry as to who is in charge,”
Mr. Bromwich said. “It is classic swamp behavior.”

But for offshore crews, the changes bring excitement and renewed
optimism about work.

“It affects from the lowest guy to the highest guy, regulations, all day
long,” said Don LeBoeuf, an Energy XXI crew worker here in Port
Fourchon, before he boarded a boat to a platform 60 miles offshore.

Huge drillships — with names like Deepwater Asgard
<http://www.marinetraffic.com/en/ais/details/ships/shipid:713786/mmsi:538004609/imo:9620580/vessel:DEEPWATER_ASGARD>,
owned by Transocean, the same company that owned Deepwater Horizon —
have been anchored in place 18 miles offshore for months at a time
<http://www.shiplocation.com/vessels/DEEPWATER-ASGARD/VESSEL-FINDER/9620580>
with their generators running and their crews on board, waiting for work.

When a small boat with a reporter and photographer recently pulled up
alongside Deepwater Asgard, workers peered over the side, wondering why
they had visitors. Asked what they thought about the Trump
administration’s rollback of regulations in the Gulf, one of them
yelled, “Drill, baby, drill!”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-23>

Several weeks later, the ship actually did get a drilling contract, and
is now back at work.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-24>
Photo
//
Deepwater Asgard, a drillship owned by the same company as Deepwater
Horizon, was anchored for months, waiting for work. Credit Chris
Carmichael for The New York Times


        Regulations and Tough Times

Even in a difficult period, the Gulf generates 97 percent
<https://www.boem.gov/Gulf-of-Mexico-Region/> of offshore oil in the
United States, about 18 percent
<https://www.boem.gov/Oil-and-Gas-Energy-Program/> of the country’s
crude oil and $2.8 billion a year in royalty and lease payments to the
federal government. And 2017 was a record year for the Gulf, with a
total of1.65 million barrels a day
<https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=pet&s=mcrfp3fm2&f=a>.

There are 2,200 offshore oil and gas platforms along an 820-mile stretch
of coast between Brownsville, Tex., and Mobile, Ala., and they are an
imposing presence, resembling in places a battalion of Imperial Walkers
from the “Star Wars” movies.

But in early March, the number of drilling rigs used in the Gulf was
just 14
<http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=79687&p=irol-reportsother>,
compared with 145 at the industry’s peak in 2000.

The downturn was set off by a drop in oil prices, competition from
fracking and other sources and, local businesses will tell you, an
overbearing regulatory reaction to the Deepwater Horizon accident. Talk
of lifting regulations echoes throughout the coastal communities that
serve offshore operations, particularly the smaller concerns that
specialize in shallow-water drilling.

Photo
//
John Guidry, left, and Capt. Sean Sandell aboard the Betty Pfankuch, an
offshore supply ship owned by Aries Marine. Credit Chris Carmichael for
The New York Times

“There is just not a lot of business out there right now for the
offshore service companies,” said Court B. Ramsay, president of Aries
Marine <https://www.ariesmarine.com/about> of Lafayette, which has a
fleet of 26 boats used in repairing oil and gas platforms in shallow
waters. “It would be a shot in the arm for sure, for my business and
many business like mine, if we can get some relief from some of these
rules.”

Statistics from the Greater Lafourche Port Commission
<http://portfourchon.com/>, which operates the port here about 160 miles
from Lafayette, show that as many as 450 boats passed in and out of the
piers each day, mostly to serve the oil and gas industry, during
drilling’s peak. Now there are about 300. In addition, diesel fuel sales
have dropped from about 40 million gallons a month to about 20 million,
said Chett Chiasson, the port’s executive director.

The fall in oil prices certainly contributed to the decline, Mr.
Chiasson said, but he also blames the Obama administration.

“There were regulations that were not necessarily increasing safety, but
they were just increasing the cost of the activities in the oil and gas
industry and thus hindering their ability to keep operating in the
Gulf,” he said. “We know things need to be safe and operate in a safe
manner. But we don’t need to overregulate in a way that disincentivizes
investment.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-26>

Port Fourchon itself has the feel of a moon base. It is reached via an
eight-mile bridge intended to keep the port operating even during
flooding, an increasingly common occurrence because of damage to
protective wetlands caused by drilling and dredging. Every major oil and
gas company has an encampment with ships and repair warehouses. Hundreds
of workers converge daily in a rush-hour scramble of muddy pickup trucks.

The port operates around the clock, 365 days a year, with hundreds of
service boats and helicopters ferrying crews to and from offshore
platforms and drilling rigs. Giant workboats — the equivalent of
floating dump trucks — carry loads of mud, fuel, water, food and other
supplies the crews require.

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-27>
Photo
//
Port Fourchon figures prominently in American petroleum production, with
hundreds of service boats and helicopters that carry crews to their work
sites around the clock. Credit Chris Carmichael for The New York Times

Safety remains a focus. There are signs on the drillships and offshore
platforms reminding crews of the importance of following safety rules.
At the port entrance, a memorial depicts a mermaid ascending from the
water, complete with a cloak that includes an oil rig. The Our Lady of
the Gulf <http://www.ourladyofthegulf.org/news> statue was installed
last year to honor offshore workers who have died in the Gulf, including
the those killed
<https://www.clarionledger.com/story/news/2015/04/18/short-portraits-died-deepwater-horizon/26007421/>
in the Deepwater Horizon explosion.

But the primary concern voiced here is economic.

“Half the supply boats and crew boats up and down the bayou have been
seized by the banks,” said Kathleen Chiasson, who once ran a
truck-dispatching company that supplied the industry, and now works
behind the counter of a gas-station mini market. “I just hope someone
can do it to get it back to at least half the way it used to be.”

Agustin Armendariz contributed reporting from New York, and Clifford
Krauss from Houston.

A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 2018, on Page A1
of the New York edition with the headline: Targeting Rules ‘Written With
Human Blood’. Order Reprints <http://www.nytreprints.com/>| Today's
Paper <http://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>|Subscribe
<http://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp839RF.html?campaignId=48JQY>


Continue reading the main story <#whats-next>

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. *Tell us what you think.*

<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfLW30xgZodF1qRAg80oWEGuDpW-1HHaL0g42G3SmvB2f4lCw/viewform?entry.8537735=https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/business/offshore-drilling-trump-administration.html>

//Close this panel


    //566 Comments

Readers shared their thoughts on this article.

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to letters@nytimes.com <mailto:letters@nytimes.com>.

  * All 566
  * Readers’ Picks 422
  * NYT Picks 7

newest
//
/NYT Pick

/


John Warnock

Thelma KY March 10, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/business/offshore-drilling-trump-administration.html#permid=26272123>


This is the classic Republican recipe for disaster both in human and
environmental terms. All we here is the classic refrain of "burdensome
regulations". A big dog whistle meaning it cost money. If your business
plan won't result in profit, there is something wrong with your plan.
Cutting safety and environmental rules and regulations is not the
answer. Sure, by doing so a few will profit short term. The long term
consequences is that others lose loved ones and taxpayers get to clean
up the mess left by the profiteers.

  * //Flag
  * //150Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Ami

Portland, Oregon March 10, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/business/offshore-drilling-trump-administration.html#permid=26272796>


Our memories of the effects of disasters like the deep water horizon
accident are fleeting. Yes oil brings in big bucks but when there's an
accident the local fishing economy is devastated. Does no one remember
the fisherman who committed suicide after the worst oil spill devastated
local fisheries.

These rules weren't put in place because the government had it in for
the oil industry. They were deemed necessary to prevent another
unnecessary accident. So much for draining the swamp.

  * //Flag
  * //126Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


David Gregory

Deep Red South March 10, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/business/offshore-drilling-trump-administration.html#permid=26272831>


I guess these people do not care that the Oil Companies and
Petrochemical Industry has taken one of the richest and most diverse
ecosystems on earth- the Mississippi delta and wetlands and the northern
Gulf of Mexico and turned it into a toxic eyesore, increasingly devoid
of life and sinking into the ocean. From Cancer Alley along a stretch of
the lower Mississippi to the massive dead zone in the Gulf to the
sinking and shrinking wetlands of the coast, all was sacrificed upon the
altar of oil for America and jobs for Louisiana and East Texas.

It is easy for those living elsewhere to point a finger until they
realize that the natural gas that heats their homes, that powers many
electric generating plants, that provides chemical stock for endless
medicines and consumer products and the oil that provides fuel to fly
jets, drive big rigs, run trains and fuel gas guzzling SUVs all comes
from this destruction. The price of oil is high- very high- and far more
than most would ever imagine. Nature at every corner has paid a high
price for the American lifestyle and few have paid a higher price than
this area.

The sad part is that apparently humans will continue to abuse and
exploit the area until the last drop of oil has been extracted, cracked
and used.

  * //Flag
  * //183Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Andy

Salt Lake City, Utah March 10, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/business/offshore-drilling-trump-administration.html#permid=26273290>


This is why I don't live by the ocean anymore. Who wants that off their
shoreline? We have our own problems but someone needs to cut the tap on
these industries. Divest and go find something better to do with your time.

  * //Flag
  * //74Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Chris Wildman

Alaska March 10, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/business/offshore-drilling-trump-administration.html#permid=26272714>


I was in Texas during the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon explosion
and the resultant oil spill, and couldn't believe the venomous response
from folks there who blamed Obama not only for the federal response to
the seemingly endless spill, but for the blowout itself. In exasperation
at a barbecue one night, I asked if they expected the President to
change into Aquaman costume, dive into the Gulf and plug the well himself.

The Deepwater disaster, we learned, wasn't the first oil spill in the
region - it turned out that Louisiana's coastal region was rife with
spills. The Deepwater was the the worst, though, and the Obama
administration, stunned by the scope of the damage and determined to
protect the people who work in the industries in the Gulf and the Gulf
itself, moved quickly to enact legislation that it hoped would prevent
future tragedies, both human and environmental. Who could fault them?
Why, the oil companies, of course!

Trump, in his neverending quest to undo everything his predecessor did
out of sheer spite (and apparent ignorance) now moves to deregulate
another fossil fuel industry. Figures. So when he's long gone and
another tragedy occurs in the Gulf, hey - blame the new guy...

  * //Flag
  * //370Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Mark Thomason

/is a trusted commenter/ Clawson, MI March 10, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/business/offshore-drilling-trump-administration.html#permid=26276233>


The Deepwater Horizon disaster cost 11 lives.

It also cost British Petroleum $65 billion, as reported by Reuters,
which is the cost imposed under the old laws applicable to what it did
back then.

Yes, they might risk another 11 lives if safety regulations permit.

But no, they won't risk losing another $65 billion. That caused heads to
roll all through the company.

It isn't as if they would become totally free to be careless.

I am a supporter of safety regulations. But I don't want the case to be
exaggerated. That detracts. It is not wise advocacy.

  * //Flag
  * //6Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


hen3ry

/is a trusted commenter/ Westchester, NY March 11, 2018
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/business/offshore-drilling-trump-administration.html#permid=26281812>


No matter how many lives are lost or ruined, how much air, water, and
land is destroyed or polluted businesses have no problem finding reasons
to rollback safety rules and regulations. Trump is merely doing their
bidding. He's a businessman and he's rich. He will never suffer because
of an explosion on an off shore oil rig. He will never lack for fresh
clean drinking water. Nor will any of the executive level people in
these companies. That they don't consider keeping our oceans, lakes,
rivers, land, and air clean enough for their workers and the country as
a whole is a disgrace and typical of the economic 1% in America. It's
not hurting them when the water is too polluted to drink. Why should
they care about what happens to the locals or their employees?

This has been how business has operated in America for decades.
Shareholders are more important than employees or communities. Profit,
as large as possible, is the only consideration. What's a little
carcinogen in the air or flock or three of dead water fowl: nothing to
worry about as long as the profit targets are met. And that is the story
of America now. Blood and death, if they only affect employees or 99% of
us, doesn't matter.

  * //Flag
  * //53Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

Loading...
Read More //

View all 566 comments


    //566 Comments

Readers shared their thoughts on this article.

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to letters@nytimes.com <mailto:letters@nytimes.com>.

  * All 566
  * Readers’ Picks 422
  * NYT Picks 7

newest
//


    Related Coverage

 1.


        Trump Would Open Nearly All U.S. Waters to Drilling. But Will
        They Drill? JAN. 23, 2018

    // graphic
    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/01/23/climate/trump-offshore-oil-drilling.html>


 2.


        Trump Moves to Open Nearly All Offshore Waters to Drilling JAN.
        4, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/04/climate/trump-offshore-drilling.html>


 3.


        U.S. to Roll Back Safety Rules Created After Deepwater Horizon
        Spill DEC. 28, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/28/us/trump-offshore-drilling.html>

 1.


        BP to Take $1.7 Billion Charge Over Deepwater Horizon Spill JAN.
        16, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/16/business/dealbook/bp-oil-spill-deepwater-horizon.html>


 2.


          TRUMP RULES


        The Deep Industry Ties of Trump’s Deregulation Teams JULY 11, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/11/business/the-deep-industry-ties-of-trumps-deregulation-teams.html>


 3.


          TRUMP RULES


        Under Trump, Worker Protections Are Viewed With New Skepticism
        JUNE 5, 2017

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/05/business/under-trump-worker-protections-are-viewed-with-new-skepticism.html>


Show All


    Trending

 1.


        Trump Chooses Bolton for 3rd Security Adviser as Shake-Up Continues

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/hr-mcmaster-trump-bolton.html>

 2.


        Why He Kayaked Across the Atlantic at 70 (for the Third Time)

    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/03/22/magazine/voyages-kayaking-across-ocean-at-70.html>

 3.


        Trump’s Lawyer Resigns as President Adopts Aggressive Approach
        in Russia Inquiry

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/john-dowd-resigns-trump-lawyer.html>

 4.


        Unbecoming a Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/style/vanessa-trump-divorce.html>
 5.


        Matter: Was a Tiny Mummy in the Atacama an Alien? No, but the
        Real Story Is Almost...

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/science/ata-mummy-alien-chile.html>
 6.


        Video Shows Las Vegas Gunman Gambling, Eating Alone and Filling
        His Suite With Guns

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/las-vegas-shooting-stephen-paddock.html>

 7.


        Ex-Playboy Model Karen McDougal Details 10-Month Affair With
        Donald Trump

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/karen-mcdougal-interview.html>

 8.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Cynthia Nixon and the Degradation of Experience

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/cynthia-nixon-experience-governor-ny.html>

 9.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Speaking as a White Male …

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/opinion/speaking-as-a-white-male.html>

10.


        How the Las Vegas Gunman Planned a Massacre, in 7 Days of Video

    <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/100000005794914/las-vegas-gunman-planned-massacre.html>


View More Trending Stories » <https://www.nytimes.com/trending>


    What's Next

Loading...

//Close this overlay


Go to previous
Go to next

Loading...

Go to Home Page » <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index The New York Times The New York Times
    <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index Navigation


      News

  * World <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


      Opinion

  * Today's Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html>
  * Op-Ed Columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>
  * Video: Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>


      Arts

  * Today's Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Books <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Video: Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>


      Living

  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>
  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Weddings & Celebrations
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>


      Listings & More

  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP>

  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage My Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * NYTCo <http://www.nytco.com/>


      Subscribe

  * Subscribe
  * // Home Delivery <https://www.nytimes.com/hdleftnav>
  * // Digital Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/digitalleftnav>
  * // Crossword
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/games/lp897H9.html?campaignId=49W8Y>


  * Email Newsletters <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newsletters>
  * Alerts <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/mem/tnt.html>
  * Gift Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/giftleftnav>
  * Group Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/corporateleftnav>
  * Education Rate <https://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav>

  * Mobile Applications
    <https://www.nytimes.com/services/mobile/index.html>
  * Replica Edition
    <http://eedition.nytimes.com/cgi-bin/signup.cgi?cc=37FYY>


    Site Information Navigation

  * © 2018The New York Times Company
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html>

  * Home <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * Search <http://query.nytimes.com/search/sitesearch/#/>
  * Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com
    <mailto:accessibility@nytimes.com>. We would love to hear from you.
  * Contact Us
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/infoservdirectory.html>
  * Work With Us <http://www.nytco.com/careers>
  * Advertise <http://nytmediakit.com/>
  * Your Ad Choices
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp>
  * Privacy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Terms of Service
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html>
  * Terms of Sale
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html>


    Site Information Navigation

  * Site Map <http://spiderbites.nytimes.com/>
  * Help <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter/sitehelp.html>
  * Site Feedback <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html>
  * Subscriptions
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW>


  * Africa <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/africa>
  * Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/americas>
  * Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia>
  * Australia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/australia>
  * Europe <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe>
  * Middle East <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast>

  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Elections <http://elections.nytimes.com/>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Events <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>

  * DealBook <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/dealbook/index.html>
  * Economy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/economy>
  * Energy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/energy-environment>
  * Markets <http://markets.on.nytimes.com/>
  * Media <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/media>
  * Entrepreneurship
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/smallbusiness>
  * Your Money <https://www.nytimes.com/section/your-money>
  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>

  * Op-Ed Columnists
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>

  * Personal Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology/personaltech>

  * Climate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate>
  * Space & Cosmos <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science/space>

  * Well <https://www.nytimes.com/section/well>
  * Money & Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health/policy>
  * Health Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/index.html>

  * Baseball <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/baseball>
  * Basketball: College
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaabasketball>
  * Basketball: N.B.A. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball>
  * Football: College <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaafootball>
  * Football: N.F.L. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/football>
  * Golf <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/golf>
  * Hockey <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/hockey>
  * Soccer <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/soccer>
  * Tennis <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/tennis>

  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Watching <https://www.nytimes.com/watching>

  * Best Sellers <https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/>
  * By the Book <https://www.nytimes.com/column/by-the-book>
  * The Book Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review>
  * Book Review Podcast
    <https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast>

  * Men's Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/mens-style>
  * On the Runway <https://www.nytimes.com/column/on-the-runway>
  * Weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>

  * Cooking <http://cooking.nytimes.com/>
  * Restaurant Search <https://www.nytimes.com/reviews/dining>

  * The High End <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/the-high-end>
  * Commercial <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate/commercial>
  * iPhone App
    <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/nytimesrealestate/id337316535>
  * Find A Home <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/find-a-home>
  * Mortgage Calculator
    <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/mortgage-calculator>
  * My Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/my-real-estate>
  * List Your Home <https://realestateads.nytimes.com/>

  * U.S. & Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us-politics>
  * International <https://www.nytimes.com/video/world>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/video/n-y-region>
  * Op-Docs <https://www.nytimes.com/video/op-docs>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>
  * Times Documentaries <https://www.nytimes.com/video/times-documentaries>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/video/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/video/technology>
  * Culture <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>
  * Style <https://www.nytimes.com/video/style>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/video/t-magazine>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/video/health>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/video/dining-and-wine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/video/travel>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/video/sports>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/video/real-estate>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/video/science>

  * DealBook <http://nytdealbookconference.com/>
  * ClimateTECH <http://nytclimatetech.com/>
  * Global Strategy Summit <http://nytglobalstrategy.com/>
  * International Luxury Conference <http://nytluxury.com/>
  * Luxury Travel <http://nytluxurytravel.com/>
  * New Work Summit <http://newworksummit.com/>
  * Higher Ed Leaders Forum <http://nythigheredleaders.com/>
  * Athens Democracy Forum <http://athensdemocracyforum.com/>
  * Oil & Money <http://oilandmoney.com/>
  * Art Leaders Network <http://nytartleadersnetwork.com/>

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


  * Charles M. Blow <https://www.nytimes.com/column/charles-m-blow>
  * David Brooks <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-brooks>
  * Frank Bruni <https://www.nytimes.com/column/frank-bruni>
  * Roger Cohen <https://www.nytimes.com/column/roger-cohen>
  * Gail Collins <https://www.nytimes.com/column/gail-collins>
  * Ross Douthat <https://www.nytimes.com/column/ross-douthat>
  * Maureen Dowd <https://www.nytimes.com/column/maureen-dowd>
  * Thomas L. Friedman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/thomas-l-friedman>
  * Nicholas Kristof <https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof>
  * Paul Krugman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/paul-krugman>
  * David Leonhardt <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-leonhardt>
  * Andrew Rosenthal <https://www.nytimes.com/column/andrew-rosenthal>
  * Bret Stephens <https://www.nytimes.com/column/bret-stephens>

//Close this modal window


          Edition

  * English <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * 中文 (Chinese) <http://cn.nytimes.com/>
  * Español <https://www.nytimes.com/es/>


          Help

  * FAQ <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/front.html>
  * Contact Us <http://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>


          Type Size

  * A Type size small <javascript:;>
  * A Type size medium <javascript:;>
  * A Type size large <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


Verified Commenters
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/usercontent/verified/verified-commenters.html>
can leave comments on NYTimes.com without initial moderation. Verified
status is earned based on a history of quality comments.
//Close this modal window


  * Edit Profile <javascript:;>
  * My Account <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>
  * My Billing Information
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/get-started/manage-billing?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F03%2F10%2Fbusiness%2Foffshore-drilling-trump-administration.html>
  * My Saved Items <http://www.nytimes.com/saved>
  * Log Out

//Close this modal window


      Log in


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F03%2F10%2Fbusiness%2Foffshore-drilling-trump-administration.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Sign up


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Edit Profile


        Your profile is public. It will appear with any comments you
        leave on NYTimes.com

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Complete your registration for a free New York Times account.
        Registered users can:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Log in to:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F03%2F10%2Fbusiness%2Foffshore-drilling-trump-administration.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window

