//NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html>
//Sections

// Home

//Search

Skip to content <#story-header> Skip to navigation
<#site-index-navigation> View mobile version
<http://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html>



    The New York Times The New York Times <https://www.nytimes.com/>


            Middle East
            <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/middleeast/index.html>|White
            House Says U.S. Will Remain in Syria Despite Trump’s
            Eagerness to Withdraw

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

//Search
Subscribe Now Log In
/297

/ //0 //Settings
//Close search


    Site Search Navigation

Search NYTimes.com
//Clear this text input

Go

https://nyti.ms/2EjLYkP

 1.


        Middle East
        <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/middleeast/index.html>

     1.


            YouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in Iran

        <https://www.nytimes.com/video/world/middleeast/100000005833316/youtube-shooter-was-popular-and-ridiculed-in-iran.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

     2.
        //


            White House Says U.S. Will Remain in Syria Despite Trump’s
            Eagerness to Withdraw

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

     3.
        //


            Houthi Rebels Hit Saudi Tanker With Missile to Avenge Deadly
            Airstrike

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/world/middleeast/houthi-missile-saudi-yemen.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

     4.
        //


              News Analysis


            Netanyahu’s Reversal on Migrants Shows Influence of
            Hard-Line Allies

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/world/middleeast/netanyahu-africa-migrants-rwanda.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

     5.
        //


            Saudi Prince Says Israelis Have Right to ‘Their Own Land’

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/world/middleeast/saudi-arabia-mohammed-bin-salman-israel.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

     6.
     7.
        //


            Saudi Bombing Is Said to Kill Yemeni Civilians Seeking
            Relief From the Heat

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/02/world/middleeast/saudi-yemen-bombings.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

     8.
        //


            Sermons and Shouted Insults: How Erdogan Keeps Turkey Spellbound

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/02/world/middleeast/erdogan-turkey.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

     9.
        //


            Israeli Leader Is Forced to Retreat on African Migrant Deal

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/02/world/middleeast/israel-african-migrants-un-resettlement.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    10.
        //


            Celebrating Mimouna and Its Dose of Post-Passover Carbs

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/02/dining/mimouna-passover-moroccan-feast.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    11.
        //


            The F.B.I. and the Mystery of the Mummy’s Head

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/02/science/mummy-head-fbi-dna.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    12.
        //


            After Gaza Clash, Israel and Palestinians Fight With Videos
            and Words

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/01/world/middleeast/israel-gaza-fighting.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    13.
        //


              Qasr al-Yahud Journal


            Clearing Land Mines From the Spot Where Jesus Is Said to
            Have Been...

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/01/world/middleeast/west-bank-jesus-land-mines-jordan-river-baptism.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    14.
        //


            Pope Francis Delivers Plea for Peace in Easter Sunday Mass

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/01/world/europe/pope-francis-easter-mass.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    15.
        //


            At Gaza Fence, Violence Fades as Israel Warns of Broader
            Response

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/31/world/middleeast/gaza-israel-border-palestinians.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    16.
        //


            ‘2 Bitter Options’ for Syrians Trapped Between Assad and
            Extremists

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/31/world/middleeast/syria-idlib-war.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    17.


            Britons Accused of Being Islamic State ‘Beatles’ Call
            Beheadings ‘Regrettable’

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/31/world/middleeast/britain-isis-beatles-syria.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    18.
        //


            Easter Week Around the World (and Hell, if It Exists)

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/30/world/europe/easter-celebrations-world.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    19.
        //


            Israeli Military Kills 15 Palestinians in Confrontations on
            Gaza Border

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/30/world/middleeast/gaza-israel-protest-clashes.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    20.
        //


            Trump Orders State Dept. to Suspend Funds for Syria Recovery

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/30/world/middleeast/syria-us-coalition-deaths.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

    21.
        //


            Wooing Saudi Business, Tabloid Mogul Had a Powerful Friend:
            Trump

        <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/29/business/media/david-pecker-trump-saudi-arabia.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>

 2.
    Loading...

See next articles

See previous articles


    Middle East <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/middleeast/index.html>


    Site Navigation

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>

  * More


    Site Mobile Navigation

Advertisement

Supported by


      Middle East
      <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/middleeast/index.html>


  White House Says U.S. Will Remain in Syria Despite Trump’s Eagerness
  to Withdraw

By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS
<https://www.nytimes.com/by/julie-hirschfeld-davis>APRIL 4, 2018

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1> Share This Page
Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

  * //Share <javascript:;>
  * //Tweet <javascript:;>
  * //Email <javascript:;>
  * //More <javascript:;>
  * //Save <javascript:;>

/297

/

Photo
//
American forces in northern Syria last month. Credit Hussein
Malla/Associated Press

WASHINGTON — The White House said on Wednesday that the United States is
committed to continuing to fight the Islamic State in Syria, signaling a
retreat by President Trump from his insistence that the 2,000 American
forces there quickly return home from the conflict.

“The military mission to eradicate ISIS in Syria is coming to a rapid
end, with ISIS being almost completely destroyed,” Sarah Huckabee
Sanders, the press secretary, said in a statement issued one day after
Mr. Trump met with military commanders to discuss the future of the
mission. “The United States and our partners remain committed to
eliminating the small ISIS presence in Syria that our forces have not
already eradicated.”

The statement indicated that the president’s top military advisers, who
have argued that maintaining United States forces in Syria is crucial to
defeating the Islamic State and ensuring that the militant group cannot
regain a foothold in the region, have succeeded — at least for now — in
persuading an impatient commander in chief not to order a quick withdrawal.

It was the latest instance of the president making an unscripted remark
with far-reaching implications that prompted a behind-the-scenes
scramble by his advisers to translate blunt talk into an official
government policy. White House and administration officials also had
spent Monday and Tuesday trying to translate a series of confusing
presidential tweets and comments on immigration into a coherent
strategy, including a new legislative push and the mobilization of the
National Guard to the southern border.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-1>

The statement on Syria was issued one day after Mr. Trump made plain his
eagerness
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/us/politics/trump-foreign-policy.html>
to pull American troops out, arguing that the United States had
essentially already won the battle against the Islamic State and saying
that “sometimes it’s time to come back home.”

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-2>


    The Trump White House
    <https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/donald-trump-white-house>


      The historic moments, head-spinning developments and
      inside-the-White House intrigue.

  *


        Stocks Wobble on Wall Street as Trade Fight Grows Between U.S.
        and China
        APR 4

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/business/stock-markets-trade-war.html?rref=collection%2Fnewseventcollection%2FThe%20Trump%20White%20House>


  *


        Amazon Has Lots of Company as Trump Slams ‘Stupid’ Businesses
        APR 3

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/us/politics/trump-amazon.html?rref=collection%2Fnewseventcollection%2FThe%20Trump%20White%20House>


  *


        White House Unveils Tariffs on 1,300 Chinese Products
        APR 3

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/us/politics/white-house-chinese-imports-tariffs.html?rref=collection%2Fnewseventcollection%2FThe%20Trump%20White%20House>


  *


        A Twitter Rant That Rails and Misleads on Immigration Policy
        APR 3

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/us/politics/fact-check-trump-twitter-immigration-policy-.html?rref=collection%2Fnewseventcollection%2FThe%20Trump%20White%20House>


  *


        White House Turf Battle Threatens to Delay Tax Law Rollout
        APR 3

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/us/politics/tax-law-regulations-omb-treasury.html?rref=collection%2Fnewseventcollection%2FThe%20Trump%20White%20House>


See More » <https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/donald-trump-white-house>


    Related Coverage

  *


          WHITE HOUSE MEMO


        On Foreign Policy, President Trump Reverts to Candidate Trump
        APRIL 3, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/us/politics/trump-foreign-policy.html>



    //Recent Comments


Mike

5 minutes ago

Talking to the Saudis about the fact that they want us to keep US troops
in Syria, Trump says he said: "'Well, you know, you want us to...


ZHR

5 minutes ago

Trump with his 3 year old grandson in a meeting with military
advisers.Trump to Grandson: "Me and these people who know much less than...


Paul P.

5 minutes ago

Now of course, the "dear leader" will denounce whom ever made such a
remark; not withstanding his own intemperate words. He speaks without...

  * See All Comments
  * Write a comment

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-3>

“I want to get out — I want to bring our troops back home,” Mr. Trump
said on Tuesday during a news conference with leaders of Baltic nations.
“It’s time. We were very successful against ISIS.”

The United States has been aiding a military campaign in Syria that has
reclaimed much of the territory once under the control of the militant
group. But while Mr. Trump has expressed enthusiasm for battling ISIS,
he is reverting
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/us/politics/trump-foreign-policy.html>
to the “America First” posture he pressed as a candidate, hoping to
separate the United States from foreign involvement and military
adventures abroad.

The decision comes as Mr. Trump’s national security team is in flux, and
has been divided over what to do in Syria. The president ousted his
secretary of state, Rex W. Tillerson, last month, and his national
security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, is soon to depart after Mr.
Trump decided to replace him with John R. Bolton.

While Mr. Trump has pressed intensively to withdraw troops and unwind
American involvement, Pentagon officials argued strenuously in recent
days against a pullout of all United States troops from Syria. They
pointed to the rise of the Islamic State in Iraq after former President
Barack Obama withdrew troops from there as a precedent they said laid
the groundwork for the militant organization to flourish there.

Defense Department officials say that sacrifices made by the American
military in Syria could be washed away if troops leave precipitously.

“A lot of very good military progress was made over the last couple
years,” said Gen. Joseph L. Votel, the top officer at the military’s
Central Command, during a conference in Washington on Tuesday.


    Newsletter Sign Up

Continue reading the main story <#continues-post-newsletter>


      The Interpreter Newsletter

Understand the world with sharp insight and commentary on the major news
stories of the week.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.

Invalid email address. Please re-enter.

You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up

You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services.


Thank you for subscribing.


An error has occurred. Please try again later.


You are already subscribed to this email.

View all New York Times newsletters. <https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters>

  * See Sample
    <http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/sample/the-interpreter?pgtype=subscriptionspage&version=new&contentId=INT&eventName=sample&module=newsletter-sign-up>
  * Privacy Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Opt out or contact us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime

“But again, the hard part I think is in front of us, and that is
stabilizing these areas, consolidating our gains, getting people back
into their homes, addressing the long-term issues of reconstruction and
other things that will have to be done,” General Votel said.

Col. Ryan Dillon, the spokesman for the American-led coalition in Iraq
and Syria, said that the Islamic State still holds territory in the
mid-Euphrates River Valley, and noted that trying to rout the remaining
militants has proved difficult as offensive operations have all but
ceased in the area.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story <#story-continues-4>

The slow pace of the campaign stems from losing Syrian Kurds — the
American military’s key ally in the fight against the Islamic State — to
a new fight against Turkish troops in the northwestern corner of the
country.

Operations are “not happening at the pace it was about a month and half
ago,” Colonel Dillon said.

The president surprised even his own advisers last week when he said
publicly that the United States would soon remove troops from Syria.

Mr. Trump was in Ohio delivering remarks on trade policy
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/29/us/politics/trump-infrastructure-trade-deal-south-korea.html>
when he veered off topic and said, “We’re knocking the hell out of
ISIS,” and added: “We’ll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon. Let
the other people take care of it now.”

The following day, Mr. Trump directed
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/30/world/middleeast/syria-us-coalition-deaths.html>
the State Department to halt financial recovery assistance for Syria
while his administration reconsidered its policy.

By Tuesday, he said he was consulting with allies and would soon be
ready to announce a new policy. The White House said the president spoke
on Monday with King Salman of Saudi Arabia, and “discussed joint efforts
to ensure the enduring defeat of ISIS and counter Iranian efforts to
exploit the Syrian conflict to pursue its destabilizing regional ambitions.”

/297 Comments

/

In his news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Trump gave a sharper account of
the conversation, suggesting that the king had pressed him to maintain
the American troop presence in Syria as he objected.

“I said, ‘Well, you know, you want us to stay, maybe you’re going to
have to pay,’ ” Mr. Trump said.

Eric Schmitt, Helene Cooper, Thomas Gibbons-Neff and Eileen Sullivan
contributed reporting.

Continue reading the main story <#whats-next>

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. *Tell us what you think.*

<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfLW30xgZodF1qRAg80oWEGuDpW-1HHaL0g42G3SmvB2f4lCw/viewform?entry.8537735=https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html>



  *
  *
  *
  *

//Close this panel


    //297 Comments

Full Name
//Clear this text input
Location
//Clear this text input
Share your thoughts.

  * All 297
  * Readers’ Picks 156
  * NYT Picks 13

newest
//
/NYT Pick

/


BB

MA 3 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26596794>


He wants to end it, quickly, and bring home the troops. I don't
understand why you are criticizing/second guessing him.
Yes, finish it quickly, bring them home. He said it yesterday, WH said
it today.
What is your beef?

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //14Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


cosmo

CT 3 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26597027>


The only thing for certain is that there is no plan behind his plan.

Pre-election Trump: "I have a substantial chance of winning. If I win, I
don't want to broadcast to the enemy exactly what my plan is,"

Post election Trump: “I want to get out — I want to bring our troops
back home,” ... “It’s time. We were very successful against ISIS.”

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //84Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


K.A.

In my Den, NE USA 3 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26597183>


A close friend of mine recently said, "Take anything that Donald Trump
says and reverse it and you get the truth." Well, it appears that we see
this reality in proof. Donald Trump says he wants out of Syria8m so we
re-entrench firmly. Too bad, we can't say this of Repulican
Congresspeople. They say they support Trump so we know they don't.
Unfortunately, it only seems to work with crazy, lying, colluding Trump.
So expect that we will see our soldiers in Syria and other places in the
Middle East and Asia for years to come. Unless, we can get Trump to say
that he loves the Presidency and wants to remain POTUS, then by my
friend's belief, Trump is hating it and wants out.

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //9Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Gene Eplee

Laurel, MD 3 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26596916>


So now President Trump doesn't speak for the White House. Then who at
the White House is speaking for the Trump administration? The unelected
John Kelly?

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //93Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


avrds

montana 3 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26597137>


Didn't Trump campaign on getting out of Syria? And now we're going to
stay to be mercenaries for the Saudis?

Or could it be that now it's Putin who wants the US out and "his
generals" say no way?

It all gets so confusing trying to keep track of Trump.

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //41Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


JWMathews

Sarasota, FL 3 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26596959>


Do any of these people ever get on the same page. Trump wants out. The
Pentagon wants to stay. Trump wants troops on the border. Pentagon stays
quiet. Now the National Guard comes into play. States control the
National Guard. California and New Mexico say "no way". Then what? Trump
is the problem.

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //80Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


GM

NNJ 3 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26597293>


For a supposed "great negotiator", Trump just made a stupid, strategic
blunder. Now ISIS knows that he's impatient to pull troops for political
reasons so all they have to do is wait him out. A smarter message would
have been on the order of "We're committed to seeing this through and we
will ensure that ISIS is wiped from the face of this earth". Then
immediately follow up with crushing attacks on every known ISIS
stronghold where there is little (hopefully no) risk of civilian
casualty (but Russian - whatever...) Perhaps then ISIS will understand
there's no long term future in Syria. But of course this requires
patience, comprehensive planning and calculation - all of which elude
the impulsive, emotionally immature, self-centered person who occupies
our White House.

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //64Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


JW

Washington, DC 2 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26598012>


Obama runs for presidency claiming he will withdraw from Middle East.
The Pentagon doesn’t let him completely withdrawal and after 8 years we
were still there. Trump also runs on withdrawing from Middle East. The
Pentagon will not let him do it. Somehow this makes Trump a crazed
madman that is causing government disfunction and risking national
security. Double standard much?

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //8Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


C

Canada 2 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26598194>


So, in other words, all of this blather about pulling out of Syria,
which caused a massive waste of time, money, manpower, and American
soft-power currency around the entire world.... was just Trump’s
nonsensical word-of-the-day?

Did he really just say all of this to distract from the recent deaths of
American servicemen in Syria, who were on a coalition offensive mission?
Or was it to distract from the Mueller probe, again?

This little fiasco just cost the United States any remaining trust,
goodwill, and benefit of the doubt it might have had in either the
Middle East or with its Allies. And it definitely just threw a massive
bone to Russia, Iran, and most of all, ISIS.

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //15Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


JEG

New York, New York 2 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26597896>


On the campaign trail in 2016, it was candidate Donald J. Trump who
said, "whatever happened to the element of surprise, right?" when
speaking of the U.S.-led offensive against ISIS fighters in Mosul. Now,
as president, Mr. Trump thinks it is entirely fine to broadcast to
allies and adversaries alike that the U.S. is leaving Syria shortly. It
is in Mr. Trump's own words, "leaving the United States looking dumb."

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //14Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Birddog

Oregon 2 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26597933>


Ah, yes-More of the swirling, unpredictable clown show that has engulfed
our precious Oval Office since DJT Inc came to town. Historians are
going to have to check and recheck their primary (and secondary) sources
of information over and over again, when in the process of trying to
make sense of the steps taken by this Administration. Madness reigns.

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //22Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


WillT26

Durham, NC 2 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26598397>


Why is the US involved in another religious civil war?

This has nothing to do with us. Why are we still in Iraq and Afghanistan?

A free country, populated with free people, does not get involved in
this many foreign wars- for no national benefit.

Our involvement benefits no one. The people of Syria are the only people
equipped to solve the problems of Syria.

No amount of American treasure or lives is going to convince Sunnis and
Shia to stop killing each other.

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //22Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

/NYT Pick

/


Tom Q

Southwick, MA 2 hours ago
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html#permid=26597470>


Everyone should just remain calm. This is just Wednesday's announcement.
Tomorrow will be here before we know it and then there will be a new
position. It is also early in the month. So, before the month is out,
there will be yet another position. Just when we come to believe that
the position keeps changing, Sarah Huckabee Sanders will reassure us
that the presiden't position hasn't changed at all. It is we, in fact,
who are confused and she is tired of continuing to answer the same
question over and over.

  * //Flag
  * Reply
  * //57Recommend
  * //Share this comment on Facebook//Share this comment on Twitter

Loading...
Read More //

View all 297 comments


    //297 Comments

  * All 297
  * Readers’ Picks 156
  * NYT Picks 13

newest
//


    Related Coverage

 1.


          WHITE HOUSE MEMO


        On Foreign Policy, President Trump Reverts to Candidate Trump
        APRIL 3, 2018

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/us/politics/trump-foreign-policy.html>



    Trending

 1.


        YouTube Policies Led Woman to Target Its Offices in Shooting,
        Police Say

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/us/youtube-shooting-nasim-najafi-aghdam.html>

 2.


        Patriots’ Julian Edelman May Have Thwarted a School Shooting

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/sports/patriots-julian-edelman-shooting.html>

 3.


        Amazon Has Lots of Company as Trump Slams ‘Stupid’ Businesses

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/us/politics/trump-amazon.html>
 4.


        Google Workers Urge C.E.O. to Pull Out of Pentagon A.I. Project

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/technology/google-letter-ceo-pentagon-project.html>

 5.


        White House Says U.S. Will Remain in Syria Despite Trump’s
        Eagerness to Withdraw

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html>

 6.


        China Strikes Back at the U.S. With Plans for Its Own Tariffs

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/business/china-us-tariffs.html>
 7.


        Op-Ed Contributor: The Power of Bobby Kennedy’s Eulogy for
        Martin Luther King

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/opinion/bobby-kennedy-martin-luther-king-eulogy.html>

 8.


        Op-Ed Columnist: Old Boomers Never Die

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/opinion/roseanne-baby-boomers.html>
 9.


        In Texas, Ted Cruz Is Facing an Unusual Challenge: A Formidably
        Financed Democrat

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/us/texas-ted-cruz-orourke-senate.html>

10.


        Op-Ed Columnist: How to Win an Argument About Guns

    <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/opinion/gun-control-youtube-shooting.html>


View More Trending Stories » <https://www.nytimes.com/trending>


    What's Next

Loading...

//Close this overlay


Go to previous
Go to next

Loading...

Go to Home Page » <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index The New York Times The New York Times
    <https://www.nytimes.com/>


    Site Index Navigation


      News

  * World <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


      Opinion

  * Today's Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html>
  * Op-Ed Columnists <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>
  * Video: Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>


      Arts

  * Today's Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Books <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Video: Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>


      Living

  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>
  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Weddings & Celebrations
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>


      Listings & More

  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Video <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP>

  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage My Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * NYTCo <http://www.nytco.com/>


      Subscribe

  * Subscribe
  * // Home Delivery <https://www.nytimes.com/hdleftnav>
  * // Digital Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/digitalleftnav>
  * // Crossword
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/games/lp897H9.html?campaignId=49W8Y>


  * Email Newsletters <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newsletters>
  * Alerts <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/mem/tnt.html>
  * Gift Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/giftleftnav>
  * Group Subscriptions <https://www.nytimes.com/corporateleftnav>
  * Education Rate <https://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav>

  * Mobile Applications
    <https://www.nytimes.com/services/mobile/index.html>
  * Replica Edition
    <http://eedition.nytimes.com/cgi-bin/signup.cgi?cc=37FYY>


    Site Information Navigation

  * © 2018The New York Times Company
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html>

  * Home <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * Search <http://query.nytimes.com/search/sitesearch/#/>
  * Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com
    <mailto:accessibility@nytimes.com>. We would love to hear from you.
  * Contact Us
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/infoservdirectory.html>
  * Work With Us <http://www.nytco.com/careers>
  * Advertise <http://nytmediakit.com/>
  * Your Ad Choices
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp>
  * Privacy <https://www.nytimes.com/privacy>
  * Terms of Service
    <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html>
  * Terms of Sale
    <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html>


    Site Information Navigation

  * Site Map <http://spiderbites.nytimes.com/>
  * Help <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter/sitehelp.html>
  * Site Feedback <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html>
  * Subscriptions
    <https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW>


    YouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in Iran

Go to the previous story
<https://www.nytimes.com/video/world/middleeast/100000005833316/youtube-shooter-was-popular-and-ridiculed-in-iran.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>



    Houthi Rebels Hit Saudi Tanker With Missile to Avenge Deadly Airstrike

Go to the next story
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/03/world/middleeast/houthi-missile-saudi-yemen.html?ribbon-ad-idx=5&rref=world/middleeast>



      advertisement

Continue »

//Close this modal window


  * Africa <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/africa>
  * Americas <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/americas>
  * Asia Pacific <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia>
  * Australia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/australia>
  * Europe <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe>
  * Middle East <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast>

  * Education <https://www.nytimes.com/section/education>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Elections <http://elections.nytimes.com/>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>

  * Events <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>

  * DealBook <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/dealbook/index.html>
  * Economy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/economy>
  * Energy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/energy-environment>
  * Markets <http://markets.on.nytimes.com/>
  * Media <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/media>
  * Entrepreneurship
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/smallbusiness>
  * Your Money <https://www.nytimes.com/section/your-money>
  * Automobiles <https://www.nytimes.com/section/automobiles>

  * Op-Ed Columnists
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/columnists>
  * Editorials <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/editorials>
  * Op-Ed Contributors
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/contributors>
  * Letters <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/letters>
  * Sunday Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday>

  * Personal Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology/personaltech>

  * Climate <https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate>
  * Space & Cosmos <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science/space>

  * Well <https://www.nytimes.com/section/well>
  * Money & Policy <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health/policy>
  * Health Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/index.html>

  * Baseball <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/baseball>
  * Basketball: College
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaabasketball>
  * Basketball: N.B.A. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball>
  * Football: College <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/ncaafootball>
  * Football: N.F.L. <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/football>
  * Golf <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/golf>
  * Hockey <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/hockey>
  * Soccer <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/soccer>
  * Tennis <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/tennis>

  * Art & Design <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design>
  * Dance <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/dance>
  * Movies <https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies>
  * Music <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music>
  * N.Y.C. Events Guide <https://www.nytimes.com/events/>
  * Television <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television>
  * Theater <https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater>
  * Watching <https://www.nytimes.com/watching>

  * Best Sellers <https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/>
  * By the Book <https://www.nytimes.com/column/by-the-book>
  * The Book Review <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review>
  * Book Review Podcast
    <https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast>

  * Men's Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/mens-style>
  * On the Runway <https://www.nytimes.com/column/on-the-runway>
  * Weddings <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/weddings>

  * Cooking <http://cooking.nytimes.com/>
  * Restaurant Search <https://www.nytimes.com/reviews/dining>

  * The High End <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/the-high-end>
  * Commercial <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate/commercial>
  * iPhone App
    <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/nytimesrealestate/id337316535>
  * Find A Home <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/find-a-home>
  * Mortgage Calculator
    <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/mortgage-calculator>
  * My Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/real-estate/my-real-estate>
  * List Your Home <https://realestateads.nytimes.com/>

  * U.S. & Politics <https://www.nytimes.com/video/us-politics>
  * International <https://www.nytimes.com/video/world>
  * N.Y. <https://www.nytimes.com/video/n-y-region>
  * Op-Docs <https://www.nytimes.com/video/op-docs>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/video/opinion>
  * Times Documentaries <https://www.nytimes.com/video/times-documentaries>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/video/business>
  * Tech <https://www.nytimes.com/video/technology>
  * Culture <https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts>
  * Style <https://www.nytimes.com/video/style>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/video/t-magazine>
  * Health <https://www.nytimes.com/video/health>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/video/dining-and-wine>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/video/travel>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/video/sports>
  * Real Estate <https://www.nytimes.com/video/real-estate>
  * Science <https://www.nytimes.com/video/science>

  * DealBook <http://nytdealbookconference.com/>
  * ClimateTECH <http://nytclimatetech.com/>
  * Global Strategy Summit <http://nytglobalstrategy.com/>
  * International Luxury Conference <http://nytluxury.com/>
  * Luxury Travel <http://nytluxurytravel.com/>
  * New Work Summit <http://newworksummit.com/>
  * Higher Ed Leaders Forum <http://nythigheredleaders.com/>
  * Athens Democracy Forum <http://athensdemocracyforum.com/>
  * Oil & Money <http://oilandmoney.com/>
  * Art Leaders Network <http://nytartleadersnetwork.com/>

  * Home Page <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * World
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/world>
  * U.S.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/us>
  * Politics
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics>
  * N.Y.
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion>
  * Business
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Business <https://www.nytimes.com/section/business>
  * Opinion
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Opinion <https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion>
  * Tech
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology>
  * Science
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/science>
  * Health
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/health>
  * Sports
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>
  * Sports <https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports>

  * Arts
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Arts <https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts>
  * Books
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/books>
  * Fashion & Style
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Fashion & Style <https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion>
  * Food
    <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Food <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html>
  * Travel <https://www.nytimes.com/section/travel>
  * Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine>
  * T Magazine <https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine>
  * Real Estate
    <https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate>
  * Obituaries <https://www.nytimes.com/section/obituaries>
  * Video
    <https://www.nytimes.com/video>
  * The Upshot <https://www.nytimes.com/upshot/>
  * Reader Center <https://www.nytimes.com/section/reader-center>
  * Conferences

  * Crossword <https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords>
  * Times Insider <https://www.nytimes.com/times-insider>
  * The Learning Network <https://www.nytimes.com/section/learning>

  * Multimedia <https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia>
  * Photography <https://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/>
  * Podcasts <https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/>

  * NYT Store
    <https://store.nytimes.com/?action=click&contentCollection=NYT%20Store&contentPlacement=2&module=SectionsNav&pgtype=Homepage&region=TopBar&t=qry542&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_medium=HPB&utm_source=nytimes&version=BrowseTree>

  * NYT Wine Club <http://www.nytwineclub.com/>
  * nytEducation <http://nytedu.com/>
  * Times Journeys
    <https://www.nytimes.com/times-journeys/?utm_source=nytimes&utm_medium=HPLink&utm_content=hp_browsetree&utm_campaign=NYT-HP&module=SectionsNav&action=click&region=TopBar&version=BrowseTree&contentCollection=Times%20Journeys&contentPlacement=2&pgtype=Homepage>

  * Meal Kits
    <https://www.chefd.com/pages/new-york-times-cooking-meal-plan?utm_campaign=web1_20160617&utm_medium=partner&utm_source=nyt>


  * Subscribe <https://www.nytimes.com/seeallnav>
  * Manage Account <https://www.nytimes.com/membercenter>
  * Today's Paper <https://www.nytimes.com/pages/todayspaper/index.html>
  * Tools & Services
    <https://www.nytimes.com/marketing/tools-and-services/>
  * Jobs <https://www.nytimes.com/section/jobs>
  * Classifieds <https://www.nytimes.com/ref/classifieds/>
  * Corrections <https://www.nytimes.com/section/corrections>


  * Charles M. Blow <https://www.nytimes.com/column/charles-m-blow>
  * David Brooks <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-brooks>
  * Frank Bruni <https://www.nytimes.com/column/frank-bruni>
  * Roger Cohen <https://www.nytimes.com/column/roger-cohen>
  * Gail Collins <https://www.nytimes.com/column/gail-collins>
  * Ross Douthat <https://www.nytimes.com/column/ross-douthat>
  * Maureen Dowd <https://www.nytimes.com/column/maureen-dowd>
  * Thomas L. Friedman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/thomas-l-friedman>
  * Nicholas Kristof <https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof>
  * Paul Krugman <https://www.nytimes.com/column/paul-krugman>
  * David Leonhardt <https://www.nytimes.com/column/david-leonhardt>
  * Andrew Rosenthal <https://www.nytimes.com/column/andrew-rosenthal>
  * Bret Stephens <https://www.nytimes.com/column/bret-stephens>

//Close this modal window


Verified Commenters
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/usercontent/verified/verified-commenters.html>
can leave comments on NYTimes.com without initial moderation. Verified
status is earned based on a history of quality comments.
//Close this modal window


          Edition

  * English <https://www.nytimes.com/>
  * 中文 (Chinese) <http://cn.nytimes.com/>
  * Español <https://www.nytimes.com/es/>


          Help

  * FAQ <https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/front.html>
  * Contact Us <http://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>


          Type Size

  * A Type size small <javascript:;>
  * A Type size medium <javascript:;>
  * A Type size large <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


  * Edit Profile <javascript:;>
  * My Account <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/myaccount.html>
  * My Billing Information
    <https://myaccount.nytimes.com/get-started/manage-billing?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F04%2F04%2Fworld%2Fmiddleeast%2Ftrump-syria-troops.html>
  * My Saved Items <http://www.nytimes.com/saved>
  * Log Out

//Close this modal window


      Log in


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F04%2F04%2Fworld%2Fmiddleeast%2Ftrump-syria-troops.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Sign up


        To save articles or get newsletters, alerts or recommendations –
        all free.

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Edit Profile


        Your profile is public. It will appear with any comments you
        leave on NYTimes.com

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Complete your registration for a free New York Times account.
        Registered users can:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Sign up with Facebook

// Sign up with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Retype password
//Clear this text input
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New
York Times's products and services. You may opt out or contact us
<https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html> anytime.

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>
Contact Us <https://www.nytimes.com/help/index.html>

Create Account

Already have an account? Log In <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window


      Thank you for subscribing.


        Log in to:

  *
    /

    /Manage newsletter subscriptions
  *
    /

    /Save articles to read later anytime, anywhere
  *
    /

    /Get personalized news alerts and content recommended by The Times

// Log in with Facebook

// Log in with Google

OR
Email address
//Clear this text input
Password
//Clear this text input
Remember me

Forgot password?
<https://myaccount.nytimes.com/seg/forgot-password?EXIT_URI=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2018%2F04%2F04%2Fworld%2Fmiddleeast%2Ftrump-syria-troops.html>

Terms of Service
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html>
Privacy Policy
<http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html>

Log in

Don’t have an account? Sign Up <javascript:;>

//Close this modal window

